                                 
                                   
                                   
                                A GUIDE
                                   
                                  TO
                                   
                              G  R  I  B
                                   
                                   
                              (Edition 1)
                                   
                                   
                            THE WMO FORMAT
                                   
                                  FOR
                                   
              THE STORAGE OF WEATHER PRODUCT INFORMATION
                                   
                                  AND
                                   
               THE EXCHANGE OF WEATHER PRODUCT MESSAGES
                                   
                        IN GRIDDED BINARY FORM
                                   
                                   
                           John D. Stackpole
                          Automation Division
                    National Meteorological Center
                       National Weather Service
                                 NOAA
                                   
                                   
                           February 18, 1994
                                   
                            GRIB Edition 1
                                   

INTRODUCTION

     The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Commission for Basic
Systems (CBS) Extraordinary Meeting Number VIII (1985) approved a
general purpose, bit-oriented data exchange format, designated FM 92-
VIII Ext. GRIB (GRIdded Binary).  It is an efficient vehicle for
transmitting large volumes of gridded data to automated centers over
high speed telecommunication lines using modern protocols.  By packing
information into the GRIB code, messages (or records - the terms are
synonymous in this context) can be made more compact than character
oriented bulletins, which will produce faster computer-to-computer
transmissions.  GRIB can equally well serve as a data storage format,
generating the same efficiencies relative to information storage and
retrieval devices.

     Changes and extensions to GRIB were approved at the regular
meeting of the WMO/CBS in February, 1988; additional changes were
introduced at the CBS/WGDM/Sub-Group on Data Representation (SGDR)
meetings in May 1989 and in October 1990.  The 1990 changes were of
such structural magnitude as to require a new Edition of GRIB, Edition
1, which this document describes.  Further augmentations and
interpretations were made by the SGDR in September 1993, with approval
by the WGDM in February 1994. These changes did not result in a new
Edition to GRIB, but did change some of the Tables, resulting a new
Version number for them.  This brings us now to Table Version 2.  The
changes from Version 1 were mainly additions of new parameters or more
precise definition of existing ones.

     It is not anticipated that there will be any large-scale
structural changes to GRIB for at least four to five years, or more.
The SGDR is undertaking a thorough review of the present and future
requirements that GRIB is supposed to satisfy.  The plan is to design a
major revision of GRIB capable of accommodating these requirements and
more, without "straining" the structure of the data representation
form.  Some things are getting a little strained even now.  See below.

     Note: the Edition number is placed in the same location, relative
to the start of the GRIB message, for all Editions. Thus, decoding
programs can detect which Edition was used to construct a particular
GRIB message and behave accordingly.  This is useful for archives of
messages encoded in earlier Editions or during transition periods.  Of
course, this requires that data centers retain copies of older editions
of the code, and older versions of the parameter tables.

     Each GRIB record intended for either transmission or storage
contains a single parameter with values located at an array of grid
points, or represented as a set of spectral coefficients, for a single
level (or layer), encoded as a continuous bit stream.  Logical
divisions of the record are designated as "sections", each of which
provides control information and/or data.  A GRIB record consists of
six sections, two of which are optional:

               (0) Indicator Section

               (1) Product Definition Section (PDS)

               (2) Grid Description Section (GDS) -  optional

               (3) Bit Map Section (BMS)          -  optional

               (4) Binary Data Section (BDS)

               (5) '7777' (ASCII Characters)

     Although the Grid Description Section is indicated as optional, it
is highly desirable that it be included in all messages.  That way
there will be no question about just what is the "correct" geographical
grid for a particular field.

     In this documentation, certain symbols are used to clarify the
contents of octets (groups of eight consecutive binary bits).  If
unadorned letters are used, they are symbolic and their meanings are
described in the text; a decimal number is simply printed as is; a
character or string of characters is represented inside single quote
marks.  International Alphabet No. 5, which is identical in its
essential elements to the U.S. National Standard 7-bit ASCII, is used
for character representation in the GRIB code.

     Octets are numbered consecutively from the start of each section;
bits within an octet are also numbered from left (the most significant
bit) to right (the least significant bit).  Thus an octet with bit 8
set to the value 1 would have the integer value 1; bit 7 set to one
would have a value of 2, etc.

     The numbering of Tables in the following text corresponds to the
description of GRIB in the WMO Manual on Codes<1>.  Some additional
tables not found in the WMO Manual are indicated by letters.  These,
generally, contain information unique to a particular processing
center.

     A caveat:  The Official International Documentation for GRIB is
the just referenced Manual on Codes.  This document is, in part,
intended to be a guide to the use of GRIB and may not include all of
the features currently found in the Manual.  The features described
here are intended to be a completely consistent sub-set of the full WMO
documentation; if there are any discrepancies the Manual on Codes is
the final authority.


DATA PACKING METHODS.

     The code form represents numeric data as a series of binary digits
(bits).  Such data representation is independent of any particular
machine representation; by convention data lengths are measured in
octets.  Data are coded as binary integers using the minimum number of
bits required for the desired precision.  Numeric values, with units as
shown in Table 2, may first be scaled by a power of ten to achieve an
appropriate decimal precision, a reference value is subtracted from
them to reduce redundancy and eliminate negative values, and they may
then be further scaled by a power of two to pack them into a pre-
selected word length.  The two scaling operations are independent;
which, or both, are used in any given case depends upon choices made as
to the method of packing.  See below.

     The representation of a single value is such that:

                        Y * 10D = R + (X * 2E)
                                   
     where
     
     Y = original or unpacked value; units as in Table 2;
     D = decimal scale factor, to achieve desired precision
               (sign bit, followed by a 15-bit integer);
     R = reference value (32 bits);
     X = internal value (No. of bits varies for each record);
     E = binary scale factor for variable bit word length packing
               (sign bit, followed by a 15-bit integer).
     
     
     The reference value (R) is the minimum value of the (possibly)
decimally scaled data that is being encoded.

     R is placed in the Binary Data Section in four octets as a single
precision floating-point number:

                  sAAAAAAA BBBBBBBB BBBBBBBB BBBBBBBB
                                   
          where s = sign bit, encoded as   0 => positive
                                           1 => negative
                A = 7-bit binary integer, the characteristic
                B = 24-bit binary integer, the mantissa.
          
     The appropriate formula to recover the value of R is:

                   R = (-1)s * 2(-24) * B * 16(A-64)
                                   
     This formula is the standard IBM representation for a single
precision (real) floating point number.  (Consideration is being given
to using the IEEE floating point representation in the future, in a
later Edition of GRIB.)

     If second order (or "complex") packing is used (see the
description of that later on) the internal value, X, will be made up of
two values, a "local minimum value", Xi, and a "second order packed
value", Xj.  There will be one Xj for each grid point and a variable
number of Xi values.  This will all come clear later on when we get to
the description of second-order packing.

     What follows is a description, slightly simplified, of the process
that one would go through to pack a (meteorological) field into a GRIB
message, using "simple packing".  It includes some explanations of why
certain steps are taken, some of the consequences, and what choices
have to be made.  Some of the choices are interrelated; the
relationships should be clear when the explanation is done.  The
additional features of complex or "second order" packing will be dealt
with in a later section.

     Give that a full field is available, the first step, if necessary,
is to convert the units of the parameter into those shown in Table 2,
the SI standard units, also known as the mks system.  Some of the units
may seem a little peculiar (kg/m2, for example, for precipitation - 1
kg/m2 is equivalent to a water depth of 1 mm); others may seem
inappropriate (Pa for pressure, for example, implies substantially
greater precision than is typical in meteorological usage; inverse
seconds are not nearly precise enough for divergence and vorticity) but
they are all self consistent.  The precision of the parameters, as
actually packed in a message, can be set to any desired degree through
the appropriate use of the power-of-10 ("D") scaling and the power-of-2
("E") scaling.  Just how this comes about will be described
momentarily.

     At this point there is a choice to be made.  If it is desired to
use a pre-selected bit word length for the packed variables, then just
proceed on to the next step.  However, if a variable bit word length is
to be used, where the word length is adjusted to accommodate the data
values, then it is necessary to undertake the power-of-ten scaling.
The D value should be selected such that, when the original data, in
the SI units of Table 2, is multiplied by 10D, the integer part of the
result will have enough precision to contain all the appropriate
information of the variable.  Anticipating things a little bit, the
(scaled) value will be rounded to an integer as a part of the packing
process; thus the "significant part" of the value of the variable has
to be moved to the left of the decimal point prior to the rounding.
Temperature might be scaled with D=1, thus changing the units to deci-
degrees; pressure, on the other hand, might be scaled with D=-2, thus
actually reducing the precision to hectoPascals (mb), a more reasonable
meteorological precision; vorticity would be scaled up by D=8, and so
on.

     The second step in the packing operation is to scan through the
field, which may or may not have been "D-scaled" at this point, find
the minimum value of the parameter, and subtract that minimum - the
reference value, R - from all the data points, leaving a residual of
non-negative numbers.  This step has two benefits.  The first of these
is convenience -  making all the data points non-negative bypasses
problems with different computer hardware that represent negatives in
various ways: 1's complement, 2's complement, signed positive integers,
whatever.  The GRIB message is rendered just that much more machine
independent by being non-negative throughout.

     The second benefit is more consequential:  it can result in a
substantial compression of the bulletin size without any loss of
information content.  If a field has an appreciable bias away from
zero, the residuals formed by the minimum removal operation will all be
much smaller numbers than otherwise.  Thus they will need fewer bits to
contain them when they are, eventually, packed as integers.

     The third step is simply to scan through the field of residuals
and find the maximum value.

     At this point another choice must be made, similar to the one made
previously.  This time, if a variable bit word length is to be used,
then it is necessary to calculate how many bits (per word or per data
gridpoint) are going to be needed to contain that largest data value,
when the latter has been rounded to an integer.  Recall that at the
previous decision point, the variables were power-of-ten ("D") scaled
such that a rounding operation will preserve all the significant part
of the information.  Discovering how many bits are needed is a simple
scan through a table of powers of two, of course.  The power-of-two-
scaling is not employed and E is set equal to 0.  Then go on to the
fourth step.

     If, alternatively, it is desired to use a pre-selected bit word
length for the packed variables, the data must now be scaled, this time
by a power of two (the "E" scaling), sufficient to either reduce the
maximum value down to just fit into the available number of bits, or
enlarge the value to just fit.  This latter step takes care of the
problem of small numbers where the precision is all in the fractional
part of the number.  How much precision is retained, for the eventual
rounding, is a function of the preselected bit word length and the
"typical" range, or maximum value with the minimum removed, of the
particular variable.  The choice of bit word length, which is made
ahead of time, must be made with full knowledge of the characteristics
of the particular variable that is to be packed and a prior assumption
of how much precision needs to be retained for the largest likely
value.

     The fourth step is then to round all the values to integers, now
that they have all been scaled to appropriate units, and pack them in
the specified bit length words.

     The last step is then to set up the various identification fields
and put the GRIB bulletin in proper form.  We shall turn to this
"proper form" in the next section.

     We have ended up with two alternate ways to construct a GRIB
messages:  a fixed bit word length method and a variable bit word
length method. What are the relative advantages or disadvantages, or at
least the differences, of one with respect to the other?

     Message length: the fixed word length bulletins are always the
same length, for a given parameter; the variable word length bulletins
are, naturally, variable.  The variation is driven by the range of the
value of the parameter over the field (or the maximum value) which can
change from day to day.  Whether variations in message length is a
problem or not depends on the computer systems used to work with the
GRIB records.

     Precision:  The variable word length bulletins have a fixed and
unchanging precision, determined by the "D" scaling.  This assures that
the same information content is available day after day.  It is
straightforward to change the precision in a familiar manner, that is,
simply by orders of magnitude, just by altering the D value.  This
comes at a cost, of course; increasing the precision by a power of 10
adds about 3.3 bits (average) to each data point in the message.

     The fixed word length bulletins show a variable precision which is
case by case data driven and is determined by the "E" (power-of-two)
scaling that was used to fit the numbers into the available space.
This can happen even with the same data, on the same date, but at
adjacent grid areas.  If one area shows a low variability and the
neighboring one a high variability such that a different power-of-two
scaling is needed in the two areas, then, unfortunately, the values on
a common boundary will not be exactly equal after they are unpacked.
This can be disconcerting and a cause for confusion.  It will not
happen if D-scaling (only) is employed.  On the other hand, the
variable precision can be viewed as a strength:  a data field with a
low variability will be encoded at a higher precision, thus preserving
the character of the field; a high variability field will be
represented with less precision, but that is not a problem as the
small, and possibly lost, variations will not matter in the presence of
the large ones.  The precision of the encoded field can be increased by
adding bits to the fixed word length, but the degree of change (a power
of 2 for each bit) may not be as easy to deal with (or explain to
people) as the simple order of magnitude change afforded by the "D"
scaling method.

     No mater which packing method was employed, a proper GRIB decoding
program, that took account of the transmitted values of both "D" and
"E", would return the correct unpacked numbers, regardless of which
packing method was employed.  It would be transparent to the user
except for the questions of precision outlined above.


GRIB CODE FORM.

     With the exception of the first four octets of the Indicator
Section, and the End Section, all octets contain binary values.  All
sections contain an even number of octets; the variable length sections
are padded with zero values as necessary.  These extra bits must be
accounted for in finding one's way through the sections; their content
should be ignored.


SECTION 0: THE INDICATOR SECTION (IS)

     The indicator section serves to: identify the start of the record
in a human readable form, indicate the total length of the message, and
indicate the Edition number of GRIB used to construct or encode the
message.  The section is always eight octets long.

     Octet no.             IS Content

       1-4        'GRIB'  (Coded CCITT-ITA No. 5) (ASCII);

       5-7        Total length, in octets, of GRIB message
                    (including Sections 0 & 5);

       8          Edition number - currently  1


SECTION 1: THE PRODUCT DEFINITION SECTION (PDS).

     The PDS contains indicators for the Parameter table Version, the
originating center, the numerical model (or "generating process") that
created the data, the geographical area covered by the data, the
parameter itself, the values for the appropriate vertical level or
layer where the data reside, the decimal scale factor, and date/time
information.  The PDS is normally 28 octets long but it may be longer
if an originating center chooses to make it so.  Users of GRIB messages
are strongly urged to use the length-of-section portion of the PDS to
determine where the next section begins.  Never assume a fixed octet
length in this, or any other, section.

      Octet no.                    PDS Content

     1 - 3      Length in octets of the Product Definition Section


            4  Parameter Table Version number.
                Currently Version 2 for international exchange.
                Parameter table version numbers 128-254 are
                reserved for local use.

      5        Identification of center (Table 0 - Part 1)

      6         Generating process ID number
                (allocated by the originating center; See Table A)

      7        Grid Identification (geographical location and
                                   area; See Table B)

      8        Flag specifying the presence or absence of a GDS
                    or a BMS       (See Table 1)

      9         Indicator of parameter and units (Table 2)

      10        Indicator of type of level or layer
                         (See Tables 3 & 3a)

      11-12     Height, pressure, etc. of the level or layer
                         (See Table 3)

      13        Year of century     \  Initial (or Reference)
                                    |  time of forecast - UTC
      14        Month of year       |
                                    |          or
      15        Day of month         >
                                    |  Start of time period
      16        Hour of day         |    for averaging or
                                    |    accumulation of
      17        Minute of hour      /    analyses
     
      18        Forecast time unit (see Table 4)

      19        P1 - Period of time (Number of time units)
                    (0 for analysis or initialized analysis.)
                    Units of time given by content of octet 18.

      20        P2 - Period of time (Number of time units)
                         or
                    Time interval between successive analyses,
                    successive initialized analyses, or forecasts,
                    undergoing averaging or accumulation.
                    Units given by octet 18.

      21        Time range indicator (See Table 5)

      22-23     Number included in average, when octet 21
                  (Table 5) indicates an average or
                  accumulation; otherwise set to zero.

      24        Number Missing from averages or accumulations.

      25        Century of Initial (Reference) time
                    (=20 until Jan. 1, 2001)

      26        Identification of sub-center (Table 0 - Part 2)

      27-28     The decimal scale factor D.  A negative value
                is indicated by setting the high order bit
                (bit No. 1) in octet 27 to 1 (on).

      29-40     Reserved (need not be present)

      41-...    Reserved for originating center use.

     Note: Octet 8 may indicate the presence of the Grid Description
Section (GDS) even though octet 7 specifies a predefined grid.  In this
case the GDS must describe that grid - this device serves as a
mechanism for transmitting new "predefined" grids to users prior to
their formal publication in this or the official WMO documentation.  It
is, however, the desired practice to always include the GDS in GRIB
bulletins.

     Another Note:  The use of octet 26 to indicate a "sub-center" is
not (yet) an officially sanctioned WMO practice.  The Manual indicates
the octet is to be "reserved", and set to 0.  The use arises out of an
upcoming change in the Manual in which the "originating centers" for
both GRIB and BUFR (FM 94) will reference a single common table.  The
difficulty is that BUFR has two octets available for an originating
center number while GRIB has only one.  The compromise solution is to
allow the use of octet 26 as the "second" octet for GRIB, but only in a
national context.  The WMO will coordinate the assignment of the
numbers  for octet 5 for national and international centers (for both
GRIB and BUFR), while each national center will then be free to assign
sub-center numbers at will to be placed in the octet 26.  A zero value
in octet 26 will serve as the default indicating that there is no sub-
center associated with a particular center.  Table 0, in this document,
shows, in Part 1, a selection of the WMO recognized originating centers
(those that are currently active) as would be found in octet 5.

     
     
                          TABLES FOR THE PDS
                                   
                                   
                           TABLE 0 - Part 1
                                   
                        NATIONAL/INTERNATIONAL
                          ORIGINATING CENTERS
                         (Assigned By The WMO)
                             (PDS Octet 5)
                                   
                                   
                                   
          VALUE               CENTER
     
          
            07      US Weather Service - National Met. Center
            08      US Weather Service - NWS Telecomms Gateway
            09      US Weather Service - Field Stations
            34      Japanese Meteorological Agency - Tokyo
            52      National Hurricane Center, Miami
            54      Canadian Meteorological Service - Montreal
            57      U.S. Air Force - Global Weather Center
            58      US Navy  - Fleet Numerical Oceanography Center
            59      NOAA Forecast Systems Lab, Boulder CO
            74      U.K. Met Office - Bracknell
            85      French Weather Service - Toulouse
            97      European Space Agency (ESA)
            98      European Center for Medium-Range Weather
                    Forecasts - Reading
            99      DeBilt, Netherlands
     
                                   
                           TABLE 0 - Part 2
                                   
                               NATIONAL
                              SUB-CENTERS
                       (Assigned By The Nation)
                            (PDS Octet 26)
                                   
                                   
          National sub-centers, if any, would be found here.
                                   
                                   
              TABLE A.       Generating Process or Model
                             (PDS Octet 6)
                                   
                                   
          VALUE          MODEL
     
       These values and model ("generating process") numbers would be
                  supplied by the individual centers.
                                   
                                   
                                   
                    TABLE B.   GRID IDENTIFICATION
                             (PDS Octet 7)
                                   
     Various National Grids would be identified here by the Center
            International exchange grids are included here.
                                   
                                   
 VALUE                GRID

 21-26       International Exchange grids - see below

 37-44       Eight lat-long 1.25x1.25 "thinned" grids,
             covering the globe by octants of 3447 points.
             Full GRIB specifications below.
             For WAFC, ICAO, and International exchange.

 61-64       International Exchange grids - see below.

 255         (non-defined grid - specified in the GDS)

                                   
                                   
                     INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE GRIDS
                                   
      VALUE  RESOLUTION      AREA              GRID          GRID
             (degrees)     COVERAGE            SHAPE        POINTS
             lon x lat     (degrees)        cols  rows
     
      21    5.0 x 2.5   0-180E, 0-90N         37   36 + pole  1333
      22    5.0 x 2.5   180W-0, 0-90N         37   36 + pole  1333
      23    5.0 x 2.5   0-180E, 90S-0  pole + 37   36         1333
      24    5.0 x 2.5   180W-0, 90S-0  pole + 37   36         1333
      25    5.0 x 5.0   0-355E, 0-90N         72   18 + pole  1297
      26    5.0 x 5.0   0-355E, 90S-0  pole + 72   18         1297
      61    2.0 x 2.0   0-180E, 0-90N         91   45 + pole  4096
      62    2.0 x 2.0   180W-0, 0-90N         91   45 + pole  4096
      63    2.0 x 2.0   0-180E, 90S-0  pole + 91   45         4096
      64    2.0 x 2.0   180W-0, 90S-0  pole + 91   45         4096
   
     255         (non-standard grid - defined in the GDS)

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE/FOS GRIDS:

     (i)    The grid points are laid out in a linear array such that
the longitude index (the columns) is the most rapidly varying.  For the
northern hemisphere grids the first point in the record is at the
intersection of the western-most meridian and southern-most circle of
latitude; the last point is the single polar value (see note iii,
below).  For the southern hemisphere grids the first point in the
record is the single polar value (see note iii, below); the last point
is at the intersection of the eastern-most meridian and northern-most
circle of latitude.  For those familiar with FORTRAN subscripting
conventions, longitude is the first subscript, latitude the second.

      (ii)   In grids 21 through 26, and 61 through 64, the values on
the shared boundaries are included in each area.

      (iii)  The datum for the pole point is given only once in each
grid.  The user must expand, if desired, the single pole point value to
all the pole "points" at the pole row of a latitude-longitude grid.
Scalar quantity values are the same for all pole points on a the grid.
Wind components at the poles are given by the formulae:

            u = -speed * sin(dd)   &   v = -speed * cos(dd)

where dd is the direction of the wind as reported according to the
specification of wind direction at the poles (refer to WMO Manual
on Codes <1>, code table 878).

     The WMO convention can be given this operational definition:  At
the North Pole, face into the wind and report the value of the west
longitude meridian along which the wind is coming at you; at the South
Pole do likewise but report the east longitude meridian value. This is
equivalent to placing the origin of a right-handed Cartesian coordinate
system on the North Pole with the y-axis pointing to the prime (0
degree) meridian and the x-axis pointing to the 90 degrees west
meridian, and then resolving any vector wind at the pole point into
components along those axes.  At the South Pole the coordinate axes are
oriented such that the y-axis points toward 180 degrees west.  Those
components are the u- and v-values given as the single pair of pole
point winds in the GRIB format.

     In terms of a longitude/latitude grid these are the wind
components for the pole point at the 180 degree meridian.  For example,
on a 2.5x2.5 degree northern hemisphere grid (145x37 points), with the
abscissa along the equator and the ordinate along the prime meridian,
the transmitted north pole wind components are those that belong at the
gridpoint (73,37).  The wind components at the other grid points along
the pole row may be obtained through suitable rotation of the
coordinate system.  All the components at the pole row are, of course,
simply representations of the same vector wind viewed from differing
(rotated) coordinate systems.  In the southern hemisphere the analogous
situation holds; the single set of transmitted pole point wind
components belong at the gridpoint (73,1).

     
     
              WAFS/ICAO/INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE/FOS GRIDS
                                   
                            (Grids 37 - 44)
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                       Global Coverage of Grids
                         Octants of the Globe
                                   
     In the figure the boxes indicate the location of the octants of
the globe, the numbers are the corresponding grid identification
numbers (PDS Octet 7), and the letters are the grid identification used
in the WMO Abbreviated Heading.

     The left and right meridional columns of each octant/grid are
shared with the neighbors.

      The basic grid point separation is 1.25x1.25 deg. on a
latitude/longitude array, but the grid is "thinned" by reducing the
number of points in each row as one goes northward (or southward) away
from the equator.  In GRIB terms, this is referred to as a "quasi-
regular" grid.

     The latitudinal increment is always 1.25 deg.; this results in 73
rows where the pole is included as a "row", not a single gridpoint.

     The longitudinal spacing at the equator is also 1.25 deg.; thus
there will be 73 gridpoints at the equator in each octant.

     The number of points on each latitudinal row, other than the
equator, is given by (using FORTRAN notation):

           NPOINTS = IFIX(2.0 + (90.0/1.25) * COS(LATITUDE))

Thus at the pole there will be two gridpoints, one each at the
meridians that delineate the edges of the octant.  The formula was
worked out so that there is (approximately) equal geographic separation
between the grid points uniformly across the globe.

     Because of variations in precision and roundoff error in different
computers, the value of NPOINTS may vary by 1 at "critical" latitudes
when calculated on various hardware platforms.  Here is a table of the
exact values of NPOINTS as a function of latitude as used in the
internationally exchanged grids.  These numbers will, of course, be
found in the Grid Description Section of each GRIB bulletin.

Latitude Range     NPOINTS                 17.50 - 18.75  70
inclusive                                  20.00 - 21.25  69
(north or south)                           22.50     68
                                           23.75 - 25.00  67
  0.00 -  8.75      73                     26.25     66
 10.00 - 12.50      72                     27.50 - 28.75  65
 13.75 - 16.25      71                     30.00     64
 31.25              63                Latitude Range NPOINTS
 32.50              62                inclusive
 33.75              61                (north or south)
 35.00 - 36.25      60                
 37.50              59                   55.00             43
 38.75              58                   56.25             42
 40.00              57                   57.50             40
 41.25              56                   58.75             39
 42.50              55                   60.00             38
 43.75              54                   61.25             36
 45.00              52                   62.50             35
 46.25              51                   63.75             33
 47.50              50                   65.00             32
 48.75              49                   66.25             30
 50.00              48                   67.50             29
 51.25              47                   68.75             28
 52.50              45                   70.00             26
 53.75              44                   71.25             25
                                         72.50             23
                                         73.75             22
                                         75.00             20
                                         76.25             19
                                         77.50             17
                                         78.75             16
                                         80.00             14
                                         81.25             12
                                         82.50             11
                                         83.75              9
                                         85.00              8
                                         86.25              6
                                         87.50              5
                                         88.75              3
                                         90.00              2
                                      

     When all this is put together the result is that there are 3447
points of data actually transmitted in any individual GRIB bulletin
containing one octant of the globe.

     In the GRIB bulletins all of this information will be included in
the Grid Description Section (GDS); the GDS must be included in order
to describe the thinned or "quasi-regular" grid structure. See Section
2 and Table C for the general description of the GDS; what follows are
the specific values of the variables in the GDS that describe these
eight grids.

                             GDS Contents
                                   
                           Octets         Value or variable
                                   
                          1-3            178 (length of GDS)
                  4              0 (or 255, either indicating no PV)
                   5              33 (pointer to start of PL list)
                                   6              0
                                   
               7-32           Grid description - see below
               33-178         number of points in each of 73 rows
                              (2 octets per point)


               Details of Octets 7-32 - Grid Description
                                   
  Octets            Variable & Value

  7-8               Ni = all bits set to 1 (missing)
  9-10              Nj = 73



      GRID:   37     38    39     40     41    42     43    44
11-13 La1 =    0      0     0      0    90S    90S    90S   90S
14-16 Lo1 =   330    60    150    240   330    60     150   240


  17           Resolution & Component Flag = [10000000] (binary)



      GRID:   37    38     39     40    41     42    43     44
18-20 La2 =   90N   90N    90N   90N     0      0     0      0
21-23 Lo2 =   60    150    240   330    60     150   240    330


  24-25                  Di = all bits set to 1 (missing)
  26-27                  Dj = 1.25 deg
  28                     Scan Mode = [01000000] (binary)
  29-32                  Set to 0 (unused)

     Note that the scanning direction is from the bottom (south edge)
to the top of the octant grids, regardless of the hemisphere.  Thus in
the northern hemisphere the first 73 data points (in the BDS) will be
the equatorial values and the last two will be the polar values.  The
PL counts in the GDS octets 33-178 will, of course, indicate contain
these numbers.

     In the southern hemisphere, the first two data points will be the
south pole values, and the last 73 points will be the equatorial
values.  Octets 33-34 in the GDS will contain "2", octets 35-36 will
contain a "3", and so on to octets 177-178 which will contain "73".

     
     
                     TABLE 1.  FLAG FOR GDS OR BMS
                             (PDS Octet 8)
                                   
     The bit flag indicates the omission or inclusion of the Grid
                 Description and/or Bit Map Sections.
                                   
                                   
                    BIT       VALUE     MEANING

                    1           0       GDS Omitted
                                1       GDS Included

                    2           0       BMS Omitted
                                1       BMS Included

                    3-8         0       reserved

                     TABLE 2.  PARAMETERS & UNITS
                               Version 2
                             (PDS Octet 9)
                                   
     VALUE               PARAMETER                 UNITS
          
          
      000     Reserved

      001     Pressure                               Pa
      002     Pressure reduced to MSL                Pa
      003     Pressure tendency                      Pa/s
      004
      005
      006     Geopotential                          m2/s2
      007     Geopotential height                    gpm
     008     Geometric height                    m
     009     Standard deviation of height        m
      010

      011     Temperature                            deg. K
      012     Virtual temperature                    deg. K
      013     Potential temperature                  deg. K
      014     Pseudo-adiabatic potential temperature deg. K
      015     Maximum temperature                    deg. K
      016     Minimum temperature                    deg. K
      017     Dew point temperature                  deg. K
      018     Dew point depression (or deficit)      deg. K
      019     Lapse rate                           deg. K/m
      020     Visibility                              m

      021     Radar Spectra (1)                   -
      022     Radar Spectra (2)                   -
      023     Radar Spectra (3)                   -
      024
      025     Temperature anomaly                    deg. K
      026     Pressure anomaly                    Pa
      027     Geopotential height anomaly         gpm
      028     Wave Spectra (1)                     -
      029     Wave Spectra (2)                     -
      030     Wave Spectra (3)                     -

      031     Wind direction                     deg. true
      032     Wind speed                             m/s
      033     u-component of wind                    m/s
      034     v-component of wind                    m/s
      035     Stream function                        m2/s
      036     Velocity potential                     m2/s
      037     Montgomery stream function             m2/s2
      038     Sigma coord. vertical velocity          /s
      039     Pressure Vertical velocity            Pa/s
      040     Geometric Vertical velocity            m/s

      041     Absolute vorticity                     /s
      042     Absolute divergence                    /s
      043     Relative vorticity                     /s
      044     Relative divergence                    /s
      045     Vertical u-component shear             /s
      046     Vertical v-component shear             /s
      047     Direction of current                deg. true
      048     Speed of current                       m/s
      049     u-component of current                 m/s
      050     v-component of current                 m/s

      051     Specific humidity                      kg/kg
      052     Relative humidity                      %
      053     Humidity mixing ratio                  kg/kg
      054     Precipitable water                     kg/m2
      055     Vapor pressure                         Pa
      056     Saturation deficit                     Pa
      057     Evaporation                            kg/m2
      058     Cloud Ice                           kg/m2
      059     Precipitation rate                   kg/m2/s
      060     Thunderstorm probability            %

      061     Total precipitation                   kg/m2
      062     Large scale precipitation             kg/m2
      063     Convective precipitation              kg/m2
      064     Snowfall rate water equivalent        kg/m2s
      065     Water equiv. of accum. snow depth     kg/m2
      066     Snow depth                             m
      067     Mixed layer depth                      m
      068     Transient thermocline depth            m
      069     Main thermocline depth                 m
      070     Main thermocline anomaly               m

      071     Total cloud cover                      %
      072     Convective cloud cover                 %
      073     Low cloud cover                        %
      074     Medium cloud cover                     %
      075     High cloud cover                       %
      076     Cloud water                            kg/m2
      077
     078     Convective snow                    kg/m2
     079     Large scale snow                   kg/m2
     080     Water Temperature                  deg K
     081     Land-sea mask
             (1=land;0=sea) (see note)          fraction
      082     Deviation of sea level from mean       m
      083     Surface roughness                      m
      084     Albedo                                 %
      085     Soil temperature                      deg. K
      086     Soil moisture content                 kg/m2
      087     Vegetation                             %
      088     Salinity                              kg/kg
      089     Density                               kg/m3
     090      Water runoff                      kg/m2
      091     Ice concentration                 fraction
              (ice=1;no ice=0)(see note)
      092     Ice thickness                          m
      093     Direction of ice drift              deg. true
      094     Speed of ice drift                     m/s
      095     u-component of ice drift               m/s
      096     v-component of ice drift               m/s
      097     Ice growth rate                        m/s
      098     Ice divergence                         /s
     099     Snow melt                          kg/m2
      100     Significant height of combined wind    m
              waves and swell

      101     Direction of wind waves             deg. true
      102     Significant height of wind waves       m
      103     Mean period of wind waves              s
      104     Direction of swell waves            deg. true
      105     Significant height of swell waves      m
      106     Mean period of swell waves             s
      107     Primary wave direction              deg. true
      108     Primary wave mean period               s
      109     Secondary wave direction            deg. true
      110     Secondary wave mean period             s

      111     Net short-wave radiation (surface)      W/m2
      112     Net long wave radiation (surface)       W/m2
      113     Net short-wave radiation (top of atmos.)W/m2
      114     Net long wave radiation (top of atmos.) W/m2
      115     Long wave radiation                    W/m2
      116     Short wave radiation                   W/m2
      117     Global radiation                       W/m2
      118
      119
      120

     121     Latent heat net flux               W/m2
     122     Sensible heat net flux             W/m2
     123     Boundary layer dissipation         W/m2
     124     Momentum flux, u component         N/m2
     125     Momentum flux, v component         N/m2
     126     Wind mixing energy                 J
     127     Image data

   128-254    Reserved for use by originating center)

      255     Missing

Notes:

       1) By convention, downward net fluxes of radiation or other
               quantities are assigned negative values; upward net
               fluxes of radiation or other quantities are
               assigned positive values.
               
       2) Unidirectional flux values, where the direction of flow
               is indicated in the name of the parameter shall all
               have positive values irrespective of the direction
               of flow.  Net (vertical) fluxes shall be calculated
               by subtracting the downward flux values from the
               upward flux values.
               
       3) The u and v components of vector quantities are defined
               with reference to GDS Octet 17 and Table 7.
               However, if the GDS is not included in a message,
               then any wind components are assumed to be resolved
               relative to the grid specified in the PDS with u
               and v defined as positive in the direction of
               increasing x and y (or i and j) coordinates
               respectively.
               
       4) Provision is made for three types of spectra:
               
               1)   Direction and Frequency
               2)   Direction and radial number
               3)   Radial number and radial number
               
       5) Parameters 81 and 91 show the units as "fraction", thus
               allowing for a range of coverage. It is up to the
               user to employ the D (power of ten) scaling to
               assure that the necessary precision is retained in
               the numeric values.
               
                   TABLE 3.  TYPE AND VALUE OF LEVEL
                       (PDS Octets 10, 11, & 12)
                                   
                                   
       Octet Number 10            Number 11        Number 12

  VALUE      MEANING                      CONTENTS
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 0 - 99  special codes,    |        0        |       0        |
|         see Table 3a      |                 |                |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 100     isobaric level    |  pressure in hectoPascals (hPa)  |
|                           |            (2 octets)            |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 101     layer between two |  pressure of    |  pressure of   |
|         isobaric levels   |  top (kPa)      |  bottom (kPa)  |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 102     mean sea level    |        0        |       0        |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 103     fixed height level|   height above mean sea level    |
|                           |        (MSL) in meters           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 104     layer between two |  height of top  |  height of     |
|           height levels   |     (hm)        |  bottom (hm)   |
|            above msl      |        above mean sea level      |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 105     fixed height above|         height in meters         |
|           ground          |            (2 octets)            |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 106     layer between two |  height of top  |  height of     |
|           height levels   |      (hm)       |  bottom (hm)   |
|           above ground    |           above ground           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 107     sigma level       |     sigma value in 1/10000       |
|                           |            (2 octets)            |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 108     layer between two |  sigma value at |  sigma value   |
|           sigma levels    |       top       |  at bottom     |
|                           |     in 1/100    |   in 1/100     |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 109     Hybrid level      |           level number           |
|                           |            (2 octets)            |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 110     layer between two | level number of | level number   |
|           hybrid levels   |       top       |  of bottom     |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 111     depth below       |            centimeters           |
|         land surface      |             (2 octets)           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 112     layer between two |  depth of upper | depth of lower |
|         depths below      |    surface (cm) |   surface (cm) |
|         land surface      |                 |                |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 113     isentropic        |     Potential Temp. degrees K    |
|         (theta) level     |             (2 octets)           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 114     layer between two |    475K minus   |  475K minus    |
|         isentropic        |   theta of top  |theta of bottom |
|         levels            |    in Deg. K    |   in deg. K    |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 115    level at specified |                                  |
|        pressure difference|                hPa               |
|        from ground to     |             (2 octets)           |
|        level              |                                  |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 116    layer between      |     pressure    |     pressure   |
|        two levels at      | difference from | difference from|
|        specified pressure |    ground to    |    ground to   |
|        differences from   |    top level    |   bottom level |
|        ground to levels   |      hPa        |       hPa      |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 121     layer between two |  1100 hPa minus | 1100 hPa minus |
|         isobaric surfaces |  pressure of    | pressure of    |
|         (high precision)  |  top, in hPa    | bottom, in hPa |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 125     Height level      |            centimeters           |
|         above ground      |             (2 octets)           |
|         (high precision)  |                                  |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 128     layer between two |  1.1 minus sigma| 1.1 minus sigma|
|         sigma levels      |  of top, in     | of bottom, in  |
|         (high precision)  |  1/1000 of sigma| 1/1000 of sigma|
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 141     layer between two |  pressure of    | 1100hPa minus  |
|         isobaric surfaces |  top, in kPa    | pressure of    |
|         (mixed precision) |                 | bottom, in hPa |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 160     depth below       |               meters             |
|         sea level         |             (2 octets)           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 200     entire atmosphere |                 0                |
|    considered as a single layer         (2 octets)           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|
| 201     entire ocean      |                 0                |
|    considered as a single layer         (2 octets)           |
|---------------------------+-----------------+----------------|

Note: The numbering allows for additions within this framework:
     
          100-119   normal precision
          120-139   high precision
          140-159   mixed precision
                                   
                                   
                                   
                      TABLE 3a.   SPECIAL LEVELS
                            (PDS Octet 10)
                                   
                                   
                                   
          VALUE               LEVEL
          
          00              reserved
          01              surface (of the Earth, which
                                   includes sea surface)
          02              cloud base level
          03              cloud top level
          04              0 deg (C) isotherm level
          05              adiabatic condensation level
                          (parcel lifted from surface)
          06              maximum wind speed level
          07              tropopause level
          08              Nominal top of atmosphere
          09              Sea bottom
          10-99           reserved
                                   
                                   
                                   
                     TABLE 4.  FORECAST TIME UNIT
                            (PDS Octet 18)
                                   
                                   
                  VALUE            TIME UNIT
               
                    0              minute
                    1              hour
                    2              day
                    3              month
                    4              year
                    5              decade
                    6              normal (30 years)
                    7              century
                    8-253          reserved
                    254            second
     
     
                               TABLE 5.
                         TIME RANGE INDICATOR
                            (PDS Octet 21)
                                   
                                   
              VALUE                MEANING
     
                0           Forecast product valid
                            at reference time + P1 (P1>0),
                            or
                            Uninitialized analysis product
                            for reference time (P1=0).
                            or
                            Image product
                            for reference time (P1=0)
     
                1           Initialized analysis product
                            for reference time (P1=0).
     
                2           Product with a valid time ranging
                            between reference time + P1 and
                            reference time + P2
     
                3           Average
                            (reference time + P1 to
                            reference time + P2)
     
                4           Accumulation
                            (reference time + P1 to
                            reference time + P2)
                            product considered valid at
                            reference time + P2
     
                5           Difference
                            (reference time + P2 minus
                            reference time + P1)
                            product considered valid at
                            reference time + P2
     
                6-9         reserved
     
                10          P1 occupies octets 19 and 20;
                            product valid at reference time + P1
     
                11-50      reserved
                            
                51         Climatological Mean Value: multiple year
                            averages of quantities which are
                            themselves means over some period of time
                            (P2) less than a year.  The reference time
                            (R) indicates the date and time of the
                            start of a period of time, given by R to R
                            + P2, over which a mean is formed; N
                            indicates the number of such period-means
                            that are averaged together to form the
                            climatological value, assuming that the N
                            period-mean fields are separated by one
                            year.  The reference time indicates the
                            start of the N-year climatology.  N is
                            given in octets 22-23 of the PDS.
                            
                            If P1 = 0 then the data averaged in the
                            basic interval P2 are assumed to be
                            continuous, i.e., all available data are
                            simply averaged together.
                            
                            If P1 = 1 (the units of time - octet 18,
                            code table 4 - are not relevant here) then
                            the data averaged together in the basic
                            interval P2 are valid only at the time
                            (hour, minute) given in the reference
                            time, for all the days included in the P2
                            period.  The units of P2 are given by the
                            contents of octet 18 and Table 4.
                            
                52-112      reserved
     
                113        Average of N forecasts (or initialized
                           analyses); each product has forecast
                           period of P1 (P1=0 for initialized
                           analyses); products have reference
                           times at intervals of P2, beginning at
                           the given reference time.
     
                114        Accumulation of N forecasts (or
                           initialized analyses); each product
                           has forecast period of P1 (P1=0 for
                           initialized analyses); products have
                           reference times at intervals of P2,
                           beginning at the given reference time.
     
                115        Average of N forecasts, all with the
                           same reference time; the first has a
                           forecast period of P1, the remaining
                           forecasts follow at intervals of P2.
     
                116         Accumulation of N forecasts, all with
                            the same reference time; the first has
                            a forecast period of P1, the remaining
                            follow at intervals of P2.
     
                117         Average of N forecasts, the first has a
                            period of P1, the subsequent ones have
                            forecast periods reduced from the previous
                            one by an interval of P2; the reference
                            time for the first is given in octets 13-
                            17, the subsequent ones have reference
                            times increased from the previous one by an
                            interval of P2.  Thus all the forecasts
                            have the same valid time, given by the
                            initial reference time + P1.
                            
                118         Temporal variance, or covariance, of N
                            initialized analyses; each product has
                            forecast period P1=0; products have
                            reference times at intervals of P2,
                            beginning at the given reference time.
     
                119 -122    reserved
     
                123         Average of N uninitialized analyses,
                            starting at the reference time,
                            at intervals of P2.
     
                124         Accumulation of N uninitialized
                            analyses, starting at the reference
                            time, at intervals of P2.
     
     
                125-254     reserved
     
     
NOTES:
     
1)   For analysis products, or the first of a series of analysis
     products, the reference time (octets 13 to 17) indicates the valid
     time.
     
2)   For forecast products, or the first of a series of forecast
     products, the reference time indicates the valid time of the
     analysis upon which the (first) forecast is based.
     
3)   Initialized analysis products are allocated numbers distinct from
     those allocated to uninitialized analysis products.
     
4)   A value of 10 allows the period of a forecast to be extended over
     two octets; this accommodates extended range forecasts.
     
5)   Where products or a series of products are averaged or
     accumulated, the number involved is to be represented in octets 22-
     23 of Section 1, while any number missing is to be represented in
     octet 24.
     
6)   Forecasts of the accumulation or difference of some quantity (e.g.
     quantitative precipitation forecasts), indicated by values of 4 or
     5 in octet 21, have a product valid time given by the reference
     time + P2; the period of accumulation, or difference, can be
     calculated as P2 - P1.
     
     A few examples may help to clarify the use of Table 5:

     For analysis products P1 is zero and the time range indicator is
also zero; for initialized products (sometimes called "zero hour
forecasts") P1 is zero, but octet 21 is set to 1.

     For forecasts, typically, P1 contains the number of hours of the
forecast (the unit indicator given in octet 18 would be 1) and octet 21
contains a zero.

     Value 51 allows for the identification of the most common
climatological entities.  With P1=0, it could represent (or identify)
the multiple year climatology of anything from daily means (or less) to
semi-annual means (or more, up to a full year). The assumption is that
all the available values within the basic period P2 are averaged
together. (An "annual mean climatology" would just be an average over
the total climatological period - Table 5, entry 3.)  P1=1 allows for a
diurnal sub-stratification of the data within the P2 period, such as 30-
year climatology of February mean 00Z temperature starting at a date
certain, or all the 12Z surface radiation fluxes averaged for all the
days in a season, or whatever.   If other sub-stratifications are
appropriate they could be identified by different values of P1.  No
others have been proposed at this time.

     Value 115 would be used, typically, for multiple day mean
forecasts, all derived from the same initial conditions.

     Value 117 would be used, typically, for Monte Carlo type
calculations: many forecasts valid at the same time from different
initial (reference) times.

      Averages, accumulations, and differences get a somewhat
specialized treatment.  If octet 21 (Table 5) has a value between 2 and
5 (inclusive) then the reference time + P1 is the initial date/time and
the reference time + P2 is the final date/time of the period over which
averaging or accumulation takes place.  If, however, octet 21 has a
value of 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 123, or 124 then P2 specifies
the time interval between each of the fields (or the forecast initial
times) that have been averaged or accumulated.  These latter values of
octet 21 require the quantities averaged to be equally separated in
time; the former values, 3 and 4 in particular, allow for irregular or
unspecified intervals of time between the fields that are averaged or
accumulated.


SECTION 2: GRID DESCRIPTION SECTION (GDS)

     The purpose of the (optional) GDS is to provide a grid description
for grids not defined by number in Table B.

     Octet no.                     GDS Content

      1 - 3        Length in octets of the Grid Description Section

      4           NV, the number of vertical coordinate parameters

      5           PV, the location (octet number) of the list of

             vertical coordinate parameters, if present
                  or
                  PL, the location (octet number) of the list of
                  numbers of points in each row (when no vertical
                  parameters are present), if present
                  or
                  255 (all bits set to 1) if neither are present

      6           Data representation type (See Table 6)

      7 - 32      Grid description, according to data
                  representation type, except Lambert, Mercator or
                  Space View.
     or

      7 - 42      Grid description for Lambert or Mercator grid

     or

      7 - 44      Grid description for Space View perspective grid

     PV           List of vertical coordinate parameters
                  (length = NV x 4 octets);
                  if present, then PL = 4 x NV + PV

     PL           List of numbers of points in each row, used for
                  quasi-regular grids
                  (length = NROWS x 2 octets, where NROWS is the
                  total number of rows defined within the grid
                  description)

     Note:     NV and PV relate to features of GRIB not, at present, in
               use in international exchange.  See the WMO Manual on
               Codes<1> for the descriptions of those features.
               
               PL is used for "quasi-regular" or "thinned" grids; e.g.,
               a lat/lon grid where the number of points in each row is
               reduced as one moves poleward from the equator.  The
               reduction usually follows some mathematical formula
               involving the cosine of the latitude, to generate an
               (approximately) equally spaced grid array.  The
               association of the numbers in octet PL (and following)
               with the particular row follows the scanning mode
               specification in Table 8.
               
     
     
                          TABLES FOR THE GDS
                                   
                                   
                  TABLE 6.  DATA REPRESENTATION TYPE
                             (GDS Octet 6)
                                   
                                   
              VALUE             MEANING

                0           Latitude/Longitude Grid
                            also called Equidistant Cylindrical
                            or Plate Carree projection grid
                1           Mercator Projection Grid
                2           Gnomonic Projection Grid
                3           Lambert Conformal, secant or
                            tangent, conical or bipolar
                            (normal or oblique) Projection Grid
                4           Gaussian Latitude/Longitude Grid
                5           Polar Stereographic Projection Grid

                6 - 12      (reserved - see Manual on Codes)

                13          Oblique Lambert conformal, secant or
                            tangent, conical or bipolar,
                            projection

                14 - 49     (reserved - see Manual on Codes)

                50          Spherical Harmonic Coefficients

                51 - 89     (reserved - see Manual on Codes)

                90          Space view perspective or
                            orthographic grid

                91 - 191    (reserved - see Manual on Codes)

                192 - 254   reserved for local use



                   TABLE C. Sundry Grid Definitions
                                   
                                   
                       LATITUDE/LONGITUDE GRIDS
                          INCLUDING GAUSSIAN
                          (GDS Octets 7 - 32)
                                   
                                   
 OCTET NO.   CONTENT & MEANING

 7 -  8      Ni - No. of points along a latitude circle

 9 - 10      Nj - No. of points along a longitude meridian

 11 - 13     La1 - latitude of first grid point
             units: millidegrees (degrees x 1000)
             values limited to range 0 - 90,000
             bit 1 (leftmost) set to 1 for south latitude

 14 - 16     Lo1 - longitude of first grid point
             units: millidegrees (degrees x 1000)
             values limited to range 0 - 360,000
             bit 1 (leftmost) set to 1 for west longitude

 17          Resolution and component flags (Table 7)

 18 - 20     La2 - Latitude of last grid point
             (same units, value range, and bit 1 as La1)

 21 - 23     Lo2 - Longitude of last grid point
             (same units, value range, and bit 1 as Lo1)

 24 - 25     Di - Longitudinal Direction Increment
             (same units as Lo1)
             (if not given, all bits set = 1)

             26 - 27  Regular Lat/Lon Grid:
                      Dj - Latitudinal Direction Increment
                      (same units as La1)
                      (if not given, all bits set = 1)
                      or
                      Gaussian Grid:
                      N - number of latitude circles between
                          a pole and the equator
                      Mandatory if Gaussian Grid specified

  28         Scanning mode flags  (See Table 8)

  29 - 32    Reserved (set to zero)

Notes:

1)   The latitude and longitude of the first and last grid points
     should always be given, for regular grids.
2)   If a quasi-regular grid is to be described, in which all the rows
     or columns do not necessarily have the same number of grid points,
     either Ni (octets 7-8) or Nj (octets 9-10) and the corresponding
     Di (octets 24-25) or Dj (octets 26-27) shall be coded with all
     bits set to 1 (missing).
3)   A quasi-regular grid can be defined only for rows or columns, but
     not both simultaneously.  The first point in each row (column)
     shall be positioned at the meridian (parallel) indicated in octets
     11-16.  The grid points shall be evenly spaced in latitude
     (longitude).
4)   For Gaussian grids only the rows can be rendered quasi-regular;
     the first point shall be located at the meridian given in octets
     14-16 and the last point at the meridian given in octets 21-23.


                       POLAR STEREOGRAPHIC GRIDS
                          (GDS Octets 7 - 32)
                                   
         OCTET NO.    CONTENT & MEANING

          7 -  8      Nx - Number of points along x-axis
          9 - 10      Ny - Number of points along y-axis
         11 - 13      La1 - Latitude of first grid point
         14 - 16      Lo1 - Longitude of first grid point
              17      Resolution and component flags (see Table 7)
         18 - 20      Lov - The orientation of the grid;
                      i.e., the east longitude value of the
                      meridian which is parallel to the
                      y-axis (or columns of the grid) along
                      which latitude increases as the
                      y-coordinate increases. (Note: The
                      orientation longitude may, or may not,
                      appear within a particular grid.)
         21 - 23      Dx - the X-direction grid length
                           (see Note 2)
         24 - 26      Dy - the Y-direction grid length
                           (see note 2)
              27      Projection center flag  (see note 5)
              28      Scanning mode           (see Table 8)
         29 - 32      Set to 0 (reserved)

     NOTES:

1.   Latitude and longitude are in millidegrees (thousandths)
     
2.   Grid lengths are in units of meters, at the 60 degree latitude
     circle nearest to the pole in the projection plane.
     
3.   Latitude values are limited to the range 0 - 90,000.  Bit 1 is set
     to 1 to indicate south latitude.
     
4.   Longitude values are limited to the range 0 - 360,000.  Bit one is
     set to 1 to indicate west longitude.
     
5.   Octet 27:
     Bit 1 set to 0 if the North pole is on the projection plane.
     Bit 1 set to 1 if the South pole is on the projection plane.
     
6.   The first and last grid points may not necessarily be the same as
     the first and last data points if the bit map section (BMS) is
     used.
     
7.   The resolution flag (bit 1 of Table 7) is not applicable.
     
     
             LAMBERT CONFORMAL SECANT OR TANGENT CONE GRIDS
                          (GDS Octets 7 - 42)
                                   
                         OCTET NO.    CONTENT & MEANING

          7 -  8      Nx - Number of points along x-axis
          9 - 10      Ny - Number of points along y-axis
         11 - 13      La1 - Latitude of first grid point
         14 - 16      Lo1 - Longitude of first grid point
              17      Resolution and component flags (see Table 7)
         18 - 20      Lov - The orientation of the grid;
                      i.e., the east longitude value of the
                      meridian which is parallel to the
                      y-axis (or columns of the grid) along
                      which latitude increases as the
                      y-coordinate increases. (Note: The
                      orientation longitude may, or may not,
                      appear within a particular grid.)
         21 - 23      Dx - the X-direction grid length
                           (see note 2)
         24 - 26      Dy - the Y-direction grid length
                           (see Note 2)
              27      Projection center flag   (see note 5)
              28      Scanning mode            (see Table 8)
         29 - 31      Latin 1 - The first latitude from the pole
                      at which the secant cone cuts the spherical
                      earth.       (See Note 8)
         32 - 34      Latin 2 - The second latitude from the pole
                      at which the secant cone cuts the spherical
                      earth.       (See Note 8)
         35 - 37      Latitude of southern pole (millidegrees)
         38 - 40      Longitude of southern pole (millidegrees)
         41 - 42      Reserved (set to 0)

     NOTES:

1.   Latitude and longitude are in millidegrees (thousandths)
     
2.   Grid lengths are in units of meters, at the intersection latitude
     circle nearest to the pole in the projection plane.
     
3.   Latitude values are limited to the range 0 - 90,000.  Bit 1 is set
     to 1 to indicate south latitude.
     
4.   Longitude values are limited to the range 0 - 360,000.  Bit one is
     set to 1 to indicate west longitude.
     
5.   Octet 27:
     Bit 1 set to 0 if the North pole is on the projection plane.
     Bit 1 set to 1 if the South pole is on the projection plane.
     Bit 2 set to 0 if only one projection center used
     Bit 2 set to 1 if projection is bipolar and symmetric
     
6.   The first and last grid points may not necessarily be the same as
     the first and last data points if the bit map section (BMS) is
     used.
     
7.   The resolution flag (bit 1 of Table 7) is not applicable.
     
8.   If Latin 1 = Latin 2 then the projection is on a tangent cone.
     


                            MERCATOR GRIDS
                          (GDS Octets 7 - 42)

         OCTET NO.    CONTENT & MEANING

          7 -  8      Ni - Number of points along a
                           latitude circle
          9 - 10      Nj - Number of points along a
                           longitude meridian
         11 - 13      La1 - Latitude of first grid point
         14 - 16      Lo1 - Longitude of first grid point
              17      Resolution and component flags (see Table 7)
         18 - 20      La2 - latitude of last grid point
         21 - 23      Lo2 - longitude of last grid point
         24 - 26      Latin - The latitude(s) at which the
                              Mercator projection cylinder
                              intersects the earth.
              27      Reserved (set to 0)
              28      Scanning mode (see Table 8)
         29 - 31      Di - the longitudinal direction increment
                           (see Note 2)
         32 - 34      Dj - the latitudinal direction increment
                           (see note 2)
         35 - 42      Reserved (set to 0)

     NOTES:

1.   Latitude and longitude are in millidegrees (thousandths)
2.   Grid lengths are in units of meters, at the circle of latitude
     specified by Latin.
3.   Latitude values are limited to the range 0 - 90,000.  Bit 1 is set
     to 1 to indicate south latitude.
4.   Longitude values are limited to the range 0 - 360,000.  Bit one is
     set to 1 to indicate west longitude.
5.   The latitude and longitude of the last grid point should always be
     given.
6.   The first and last grid points may not necessarily be the same as
     the first and last data points if the bit map section (BMS) is
     used.
     
     
                SPACE VIEW PERSPECTIVE OR ORTHOGRQAPHIC
                           (GDS Octets 7-44)
                                   
     OCTET NUMBER       CONTENTS

      7-8      Nx - number of points along x axis (columns)
      9-10     Ny - number of points along y axis (rows or lines)
      11-13    Lap - latitude of sub-satellite point
      14-16    Lop - longitude of sub-satellite point

 17       Resolution and component flags (Table 7)
      18-20    dx - apparent diameter of earth in grid lengths,
               in x direction
      21-23    dy - apparent diameter of earth in grid lengths,
               in y direction
      24-25    Xp - X-coordinate of sub satellite point
      26-27    Yp - Y-coordinate of sub-satellite point
      28       Scanning Mode (Table 8)
      29-31    the orientation of the grid; i.e., the angle
               in millidegrees between the increasing y axis
               and the meridian of the sub-satellite point in the
               direction of increasing latitude (see Note 3).
      32-34    Nr - the altitude of the camera
               from the earth's center,
               measured in units of the earth's (equatorial)
               radius
               (See Note 4).
      35-44    reserved


     Notes:

(1)  It is assumed that the satellite is at its nominal position, i.e.,
     it is looking directly at its sub-satellite point.
     
(2)  Octet 32-34 shall be set to all ones (missing) to indicate the
     orthographic view (from infinite distance).
     
(3)  It is the angle between increasing y axis and the meridian 180
     degrees east if the sub-satellite point is the North pole; or the
     meridian 0 degrees, if the sub-satellite point is the south pole.
     
(4)  The apparent angular size of the earth will be given by
     2 * asin(1/Nr).
     
(5)  The horizontal and vertical angular resolutions of he sensor (Rx
     and Ry), needed for navigation equations, can be calculated from
     the following
     
               Rx = 2 * asin(1/Nr) / dx
                    
               Ry = 2 * asin(1/Nr) / dy
                    
                    SPHERICAL HARMONIC COEFFICIENTS
                          (GDS Octets 7 - 32)
                                   
                                   
                        OCTET NO.      CONTENT & MEANING
                                   
                7 -  8        J - Pentagonal Resolution Parameter
                                   
                9 - 10        K - Pentagonal Resolution Parameter
                                   
               11 - 12        M - Pentagonal Resolution Parameter

          13             Representation Type (See Table 9)

          14             Coefficient Storage Mode (See Table 10)

          15 - 32        Set to zero (reserved)


               TABLE 7 - RESOLUTION AND COMPONENT FLAGS
                            (GDS Octet 17)
                                   
                                   
        Bit      Value        Meaning

         1         0     Direction increments not given
                   1     Direction increments given

         2         0     Earth assumed spherical with
                         radius = 6367.47 km
                   1     Earth assumed oblate spheroid with size
                         as determined by IAU in 1965:
                         6378.160 km, 6356.775 km, f = 1/297.0

         3-4             reserved (set to 0)

         5         0     u- and v-components of vector quantities
                         resolved relative to easterly and
                         northerly directions
                   1     u and v components of vector quantities
                         resolved relative to the defined grid in
                         the direction of increasing x and y
                         (or i and j) coordinates respectively

         6-8             reserved (set to 0)

Note: If the GDS is not included in a message then any wind components
are assumed to be resolved relative to the grid specified in the PDS
with u and v defined as positive in the direction of increasing x and y
(or i and j) coordinates respectively.
                     TABLE 8.  SCANNING MODE FLAG
                            (GDS Octet 28)
                                   
                                   
     BIT  VALUE               MEANING

     1    0    Points scan in +i direction
          1    Points scan in -i direction

     2    0    Points scan in -j direction
          1    Points scan in +j direction

     3    0    Adjacent points in i direction are consecutive
                 (FORTRAN: (I,J))
          1    Adjacent points in j direction are consecutive
                 (FORTRAN: (J,I))
                                   
                                   
Note:     i direction is defined as west to east along a parallel of
          latitude, or left to right along an x axis.
          
          j direction is defined as south to north along a meridian of
          longitude, or bottom to top along a y axis.


                 TABLE 9. SPECTRAL REPRESENTATION TYPE
                            (GDS Octet 13)
                                   
                                   
        VALUE                  MEANING

          1              Associated Legendre Polynomials
                         of the First Kind with normalization
                         such that the integral equals 1



                  TABLE 10. COEFFICIENT STORAGE MODE
                            (GDS Octet 14)
                                   
                                   
        VALUE                     MEANING

          1         The complex coefficients Xnm are stored for   m > 0
                    as pairs of real numbers Re(Xnm), Im(Xnm) ordered
                    with n increasing from m to N(m), first for m = 0
                    and then for m = 1, 2, 3,...M.  The real part of
                    the (0,0) coefficient is stored in octets 12-15 of
                    the BDS, as a floating point number in the same
                    manner as the packing reference value, with units
                    as in Table 2.  The remaining coefficients,
                    starting with the imaginary part of the (0,0)
                    coefficient, are packed according to the GRIB
                    packing algorithm, with units as given in Table 5,
                    in octets 16 and onward in the BDS.


NOTES ON SPECTRAL TRUNCATION:

     Using the associated Legendre Polynomials of the First Kind, Pnm,
as typical expansion functions, any variable x(,), which is a function
of longitude,  , and sin(latitude),  , can be represented by
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
     In the summations, M is the maximum zonal wave number that is to
be included, and K & J together define the maximum meridional total
wave number N(m), which, it should be noted, is a function of m.  A
sketch shows the relationships:

     
     

     In this figure, the ordinate is n the zonal wave number, the
abscissa, m, is the total meridional wave number, the vertical line at
m = M is the zonal truncation, and the diagonal passing through (0,0)
is the line n = m.  The Legendre Polynomials are defined only on or
above this line, that is for n > m.  On the n-axis, the horizontal line
at n = K indicates the upper limit to n values, and the diagonal that
intersects the n-axis at n = J indicates the upper limit of the area in
which the Polynomials are defined.  The shaded irregular pentagon
defined by the n-axis, the diagonal from n = J, the horizontal n = K,
the vertical m = M, and the other diagonal n = m surrounds the region
of the (n x m) plane containing the Legendre Polynomials used in the
expansion.

     This general pentagonal truncation reduces to some familiar common
truncations as special cases:

          Triangular:    K = J = M and N(m) = J
          Rhomboidal:    K = J + M and N(m) = J + m
          Trapezoidal:   K = J, K > M and N(m) = J

     In all of the above m can take on negative values to represent the
imaginary part of the spectral coefficients.


SECTION 3: BIT MAP SECTION (BMS).

     The purpose of the (optional) BMS is to provide either a bit map
or a reference to a bit map pre-defined by the center.  The bit map
consists of contiguous bits with a bit-to-data-point correspondence as
defined in the grid description.  A bit set equal to 1 implies the
presence of a datum for that grid point in the BDS; a value of zero
implies the absence of such.  This is useful in shrinking fields where
fair portions of the field are not defined.  An example would be global
grids of sea surface temperature; the bit map would be used to suppress
the "data" at grid points over land.  One would not want to use the BMS
if the data were un-defined at only a small number of grid points as
the overhead of adding the bit map array (one bit for each grid point)
might add more bits to the overall message that were subtracted by the
removal of a few data values.

     Octet no.

      1 - 3       Length in octets of Bit Map Section

      4           Number of unused bits at end of Section 3.

      5 - 6       Numeric:

                  = 0:        a bit map follows;
                  otherwise:  the numeric refers to a
                              predefined bit map provided
                              by the center

      7 - nnn     Bit map, zero filled to an even number of octets


SECTION 4: BINARY DATA SECTION (BDS).

     The BDS contains the packed data and the binary scaling
information needed to reconstruct the original data from the packed
data.  The required decimal scale factor is found in the PDS, above.
The data stream is zero filled to an even number of octets.

     Octet no.

      1 - 3       Length in octets of binary data section

     4          Bits 1 through 4: Flag - See Table 11
                Bits 5 through 8: Number of unused bits at end
                                 of Section 4.

     5 - 6      The binary scale factor (E).  A negative value
                is indicated by setting the high order bit
                (bit No. 1) in octet 5 to 1 (on).

      7 - 10      Reference value (minimum value); floating
                  point representation of the number.

      11          Number of bits into which a datum point is
                  packed

     12 -nnn      Variable, depending on octet 4;
                  zero filled to an even number of octets.

     14           Optionally, may contain an extension of the flags in
                  octet 4.  See Table 11.
                  
                  
     Here are some of the various forms the binary data can take; the
flag table in BDS octet 4, possibly extended into octet 14, identifies
which variant is in use.

     Grid-point data - Simple packing

     Here the data simply begin in octet 12 and continue, packed
according to the simple packing algorithm described above, without any
particular regard for computer "word" boundaries, until there is no
more data.  There may be some "zero-fill" bits at the end.

     If all the data in a grid point field happen to have the same
value, then all of the deviations from the reference value are set to
zero.  Since a zero value requires no bits for packing, octet 11 is set
to zero, thus indicating a field of constant data, the value of which
is given by the reference value.  Under these circumstances, octet 12
is set to zero (the required "zero fill to an even number of octets")
and bits 5-8 of octet 4 contain an 8.  The number of data points in the
field is implied by the grid identification given in the PDS and/or the
GDS and BMS.

     Spherical Harmonic Coefficients - Simple packing

     Octets 12-15 contain the real part of the (0.0) coefficient in the
same floating point format as the reference value in octets 7-10.  The
imaginary part of the (0.0) coefficient, mathematically, is always
equal zero.  Octets 16 to the end contain the remaining coefficients
packed up as binary data with the same sort of scaling, reference
value, and the like, as with grid-point numbers.  Excluding the (0,0)
coefficient, which is usually much larger than the others, from the
packing operation means that the remaining coefficients can be packed
to a given precision more efficiently (fewer bits per word) than would
be the case otherwise.

     Grid-Point Data - Second Order or Complex Packing

     Before laying out where the various second order values, sub-
parameters, counters, and what have you, go, it is appropriate to
describe the second order packing method in an algorithmic manner.

     Referring back to the description of simple packing, the encoding
method is the same up to part way through the fourth step, stopping
just short of the actual packing of the scaled integers into the
"words" of either a pre-specified or calculated bit length.

     The basic outline of second order packing is to scan through the
array of integers (one per grid point, or possibly less than that if
the Bit Map Section has been employed to discard some of the null value
points) and seek out sub-sections exhibiting relatively low variability
within the sub-section.  One then finds the (local) minimum value in
that sub-section and subtracts it from the ("first order") integers in
that sub-section, which leave a set of "second order" integers.  These
numbers are then scanned to find the maximum value, which in turn is
used to specify the minimum bit width for a "word" necessary to contain
the sub-section set of second order numbers.

     The term "first order" in this context refers to the integer
variables that result from subtracting the overall (global) minimum
from the original variables and then doing all scaling and rounding;
"second order" refers to the variables that result from subtracting the
local minimum from the sub-set of first order variables.  No further
scaling is necessary or appropriate.

     The sub-section set of numbers are then packed into "words" of the
just determined bit length.  The overall savings in space comes about
because the second order values are, usually, smaller than their first
order counterparts.  They have, after all, had two minima subtracted
from the original values, the overall minimum and the local minimum,
where the first order values have had only the overall minimum
subtracted out.  There is no guarantee, however, that the second order
packing will compress a given field to a greater degree than the first
order packing.  If the first order field of integers is highly
variable, or generally close to zero, then there will be no gain in
compression.  But if the field shows long runs of small variation,
particularly if some of the runs are constant (zero variability), then
the second order packing will contribute to the compression.

     The process then repeats and a whole collection of sub-sections
are found, their local minima are subtracted, etc.  One of the tricky
parts of this process is defining just what is meant by a "sub-section
of low variability".  The WMO Manual is silent on this as it only
describes how the sub-sections and their ancillary data are to be
packed in the message.  The U.S. National Weather Service, the U.K.
Meteorological Office, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather
Forecasts, and probably other groups have, independently, designed
selection criteria and built them into GRIB encoders.  It is beyond the
scope of this document to attempt to describe them in any detail.
These groups have all expressed their willingness to share their GRIB
encoders with any who ask for them.

     Before laying out where the second order values, etc., are placed
in a message, we had best review just what information has to be saved.
We need to include the following information:

          1)   How many sub-sections there are;
               
          2)   Where does each sub-section begin;
               
          3)   Where does each sub-section end; or,
               how many data points are in each sub-section;
               
          4)   What is the local minimum value (a first order value)
               that was found for each sub-section;
               
          5)   What is the bit width of the collection of first order
               values (the local minima) found for each sub-section;
               
          6)   What are the second order values for each sub-section;
               
          7)   What are the bit widths of the second order values
               appropriate for all the sub-section; and, finally,
               
          8)   Sufficient information to specify where the above
               information is located.
               
     A moments consideration (a long moment, perhaps) will satisfy the
reader that the information given will be sufficient to reconstruct the
original data field.

     The information needed for points 2) and 3), the beginning and end
of the sub-sections, is presented in the form of a bit map, called a
"secondary bit map" to distinguish it from the bit map (optionally)
contained in the BMS.  There is one bit for each grid point containing
data, ordered in the same way as the grid is laid out.  The "primary"
bit map, the BMS bit map, may have been used to eliminate data at
points where the data are meaningless - only the remaining "real" data
points are matched by the bits in the secondary bit map.  This
possibility is understood to exist throughout the following discussion.
The start of each sub-section is indicated by the corresponding bit set
to "on" or to a value of 1.  Clearly, the first bit in the secondary
bit map will always be set on, since the first data point must be the
start of the first sub-section.  (If it is not, then something is wrong
somewhere.  Unfortunately it is not always easy to tell just where the
error occurred.)  The secondary bit map is then no more than a
collection of 1s and 0s, indicating the start and the extent of each
sub-section.  It would be possible to scan through the secondary bit
map and determine how many sub-sections there are; however, this number
is explicitly included in the GRIB message to save one the trouble, and
to serve as an internal self-checking mechanism.

     At long last, then, here is the layout of the information, with
further explanatory notes, when second order packing has been employed:

   Octet no.       Content

     1-3         Length in octets of binary data section
                 
     4           Bits 1 through 4: Flag - See Table 11
                 Bits 5 through 8: Number of unused bits at end of
                 Section 4.
                 
     5-6         The binary scale factor (E).  A negative value
                 is indicated by setting the high order bit(bit No. 1)
                 in octet 5 to 1 (on).
                 
     7-10        Reference value (minimum value); floating point
                 representation of the number.  This is the overall or
                 "global" minimum that has been subtracted from all
                 the values.
                 
     11          Number of bits into which a datum point is packed.
                 This width now refers to the collection of first
                 order packed values that serve as the local minimum
                 values, one for each sub-section.  It is determined
                 in the same manner as for the simple (first order)
                 packing.
                 
     12-13       N1 - Octet number, relative to the start of the BDS,
                 at which the collection of first order packed numbers
                 begins, i.e. the collection of local minimum values.
                 
     14          The flags that are an extension of octet 4.  See Code
                 Table 11.
                 
     15-16       N2 - Octet number, relative to the start of the BDS,
                 at which the collection of second order packed
                 numbers begins.
                 
     17-18       P1 - The number of first order packed values, the
                 local minima.  This number is the same as the number
                 of sub-sections.
                 
     19-20       P2 - The number of second order packed values
                 actually in the message.  This is the number of
                 actual data points as (possibly) modified by the bit
                 map in the BMS, if any, and/or reduced by the number
                 of identical points collapsed together by the run-
                 length encoding (see below)
                 
     21          Reserved
                 
     22-(xx-1)   Width(s), in bits, of the second order packed values;
                 each width value is contained in 1 octet.  There are
                 as many width values, or octets, as there are sub-
                 sections, P1 of them.  However, there may be but one
                 such value under special circumstances; see below.
                 Also, the width value for a particular sub-section
                 may perfectly well be zero.
                 
     xx-(N1-1)     Secondary bit map, one bit for each data point.  It
                 will be P2 bits long, then padded to an even number
                 of octets with binary 0.
                 
     N1-(N2-1)   P1 first order packed values, the local minima, each
                 held in a "word" of bit-length found in octet 11,
                 then padded to a whole number of octets with 0s.
                 
     N2-...      P2 second order packed values.  There is no "marking"
                 of the sub-sections here; all the sub-section second
                 order values are placed in a continuous string of
                 bits.  The bit-length of the "words" holding the
                 values will change from place to place but again this
                 has to be determined by reference to the other
                 information.
                 
                 As usual, there may be padding by binary 0 bits
                 sufficient to bring the entire section to an even
                 number of octets.
                 
     There are a small number of special cases and variations on the
above layout:

     If the bit-width for a sub-section is zero, then no second order
values for that sub-section are included in the part of the message
starting at octet N2.  The value of P2 will reflect the absence of
those points.  This will happen is all the first order values in the
sub-section are identical.  This is a form of "run-length encoding" and
contributes greatly to packing efficiency if the original data contains
strings of constant value (including zero).

     Under some circumstances, it may turn out that there is no need to
use different bit-widths for each of the sub-sections.  In that case, a
flag is set in bit 8 of the extended flags found in octet 14 (see table
11) indicating that all the sub-sections are packed with the same bit-
width, and that the single value will be found in octet 22.

     Row by row packing is defined as selecting entire rows (or
columns) to serve as sub-sections, without regard to "variability"
determinations.  It can have some compression value.  If row by row
packing is employed, this is indicated by setting a flag in bit 7 of
the extended flags found in octet 14 (see table 11) and NOT including
the secondary bit map in the message.  It is unnecessary since the
length of the rows (columns) is known from the grid specifications
given elsewhere in the message.

                           TABLES FOR THE BDS
                                   
                                   
                            TABLE 11.  FLAG
                   (BDS Octet 4 and, optionally, 14)
                                   
                                   
         Bit     Value      Meaning



          1       0      Grid point data
                  1      Spherical Harmonic Coefficients

          2       0      Simple packing
                  1      Second order ("Complex") Packing

          3       0      Original data were floating point values
                  1      Original data were integer values

          4       0      No additional flags at octet 14
                  1      Octet 14 contains flag bits 5 - 12

The following gives the meaning of the bits in octet 14 ONLY if bit 4
is set to 1.  Otherwise octet 14 contains regular binary data.

          5              Reserved (set to 0)

          6       0      Single datum at each grid point
                  1      Matrix of values at each grid point

          7       0      No secondary bit maps
                  1      Secondary bit maps present

          8       0      Second order values have constant width
                  1      Second order values have different widths

          9-12           Reserved (set to 0)

Notes:
        
     (1)  Bit 3 is set to 1 to indicate that the original data were
          integers; when this is the case any non-zero reference values
          should be rounded to an integer value prior to placing in the
          GRIB BDS.
          
     (2)  Bit 4 is set to 1 to indicate that bits 5 to 12 are contained
          in octet 14 of the data section.
          
     (3)  Although GRIB is not capable of representing a matrix of data
          values at each grid point, the meaning of bit 6 is retained
          in anticipation of a future capability.
          
     (4)  When secondary bit maps are present in the data (used in
          association with second order packing) this is indicated by
          setting bit 7 to 1.
          
     (5)  When octet 14 contains the extended flag information octets
          12 and 13 will also contain "special" information; the actual
          data will begin in a subsequent octet.  See above.
          

SECTION 5: END SECTION

     The end section serves a human readable indication of the end of a
GRIB record.  It can also be used for computer verification that a
complete GRIB record is available for data extraction.  It should not
be used as a search target since a '7777' bit combination could exist
anywhere in the binary data stream.

     Octet no.

      1-4        '7777' (Coded CCITT-ITA No. 5)

_______________________________
1<1> World Meteorological Organization publication No. 306, Manual on
     Codes, Vol. 1, Part B, Secretariat of the WMO, Geneva,
     Switzerland, 1988, plus Supplements No. 1, 2, & 3 (with more to
     come)

