<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  
  


  <head>
    <title>
      KickoffMinutes (diff) – PREPARDE
    </title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
        <link rel="search" href="../search.html" />
        <link rel="help" href="TracGuide.html" />
        <link rel="up" href="KickoffMinutes%3Faction=history.html" title="Page history" />
        <link rel="start" href="../wiki.1.html" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="../chrome/common/css/trac.css" type="text/css" /><link rel="stylesheet" href="../chrome/common/css/wiki.css" type="text/css" /><link rel="stylesheet" href="../chrome/common/css/diff.css" type="text/css" />
        <link rel="shortcut icon" href="../chrome/common/trac.ico" type="image/x-icon" />
        <link rel="icon" href="../chrome/common/trac.ico" type="image/x-icon" />
      <link type="application/opensearchdescription+xml" rel="search" href="../search/opensearch" title="Search PREPARDE" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../chrome/common/js/jquery.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../chrome/common/js/babel.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../chrome/common/js/trac.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../chrome/common/js/search.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="http://proj.badc.rl.ac.uk/preparde/chrome/common/js/diff.js"></script>
    <!--[if lt IE 7]>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preparde/chrome/common/js/ie_pre7_hacks.js"></script>
    <![endif]-->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../chrome/common/css/diff.css" />
    <meta name="ROBOTS" content="NOINDEX, NOFOLLOW" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="banner">
      <div id="header">
        <a id="logo" href="http://trac.edgewall.com/"><img src="../chrome/common/trac_banner.png" alt="Trac" height="73" width="236" /></a>
      </div>
      <form id="search" action="../search.html" method="get">
        <div>
          <label for="proj-search">Search:</label>
          <input type="text" id="proj-search" name="q" size="18" value="" />
          <input type="submit" value="Search" />
        </div>
      </form>
      <div id="metanav" class="nav">
    <ul>
      <li class="first"><a href="http://proj.badc.rl.ac.uk/preparde/login">Login</a></li><li><a href="../prefs.html">Preferences</a></li><li><a href="TracGuide.html">Help/Guide</a></li><li class="last"><a href="../about.html">About Trac</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
    </div>
    <div id="mainnav" class="nav">
    <ul>
      <li class="first active"><a href="../wiki.1.html">Wiki</a></li><li><a href="../timeline.html">Timeline</a></li><li><a href="../roadmap.html">Roadmap</a></li><li><a href="../browser.html">Browse Source</a></li><li><a href="../report.html">View Tickets</a></li><li><a href="../search.html">Search</a></li><li class="last"><a href="../blog.html">Blog</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
    <div id="main">
      <div id="ctxtnav" class="nav">
        <h2>Context Navigation</h2>
          <ul>
              <li class="first"><span class="missing">&larr; Previous Change</span></li><li><a href="KickoffMinutes%3Faction=history.html" title="Page history">Wiki History</a></li><li class="last"><span class="missing">Next Change &rarr;</span></li>
          </ul>
        <hr />
      </div>
    <div id="content" class="wiki">
      <h1>
        Changes between
          <a href="http://proj.badc.rl.ac.uk/preparde/wiki/KickoffMinutes?version=0">Initial Version</a> and
          <a href="KickoffMinutes%3Fversion=1.html">Version 1</a> of
          <a href="KickoffMinutes%3Fversion=1.html">KickoffMinutes</a>
      </h1>
      <form method="post" id="prefs" action="KickoffMinutes%3Fversion=1.html"><div><input type="hidden" name="__FORM_TOKEN" value="fceb5280a44561ec8bb9fa89" /></div>
        <div>
          <input type="hidden" name="action" value="diff" />
          <input type="hidden" name="version" value="1" />
          <input type="hidden" name="old_version" value="0" />
          
  <label for="style">View differences</label>
  <select id="style" name="style">
    <option selected="selected" value="inline">inline</option>
    <option value="sidebyside">side by side</option>
  </select>
  <div class="field">
    <label><input type="radio" name="contextall" value="0" checked="checked" />
             Show</label>
      <label><input type="text" name="contextlines" id="contextlines" size="2" maxlength="3" value="2" />
             lines around each change</label><br />
    <label><input type="radio" name="contextall" value="1" />
           Show the changes in full context</label>
  </div>
  <fieldset id="ignore">
    <legend>Ignore:</legend>
    <div class="field">
      <input type="checkbox" id="ignoreblanklines" name="ignoreblanklines" />
      <label for="ignoreblanklines">Blank lines</label>
    </div>
    <div class="field">
      <input type="checkbox" id="ignorecase" name="ignorecase" />
      <label for="ignorecase">Case changes</label>
    </div>
    <div class="field">
      <input type="checkbox" id="ignorewhitespace" name="ignorewhitespace" />
      <label for="ignorewhitespace">White space changes</label>
    </div>
  </fieldset>
  <div class="buttons">
    <input type="submit" name="update" value="Update" />
  </div>

        </div>
      </form>
      <dl id="overview">
        <dt class="property time">Timestamp:</dt>
        <dd class="time">
            15/08/12 15:42:15 (<a class="timeline" href="../timeline%3Ffrom=2012-08-15T15:42:15+01:00&amp;precision=second.html" title="2012-08-15T15:42:15+01:00 in Timeline">6 years</a> ago)
        </dd>
        <dt class="property author">Author:</dt>
        <dd class="author">
          scallagh
        </dd>
        <dt class="property message">Comment:</dt>
        <dd class="message">
          
          <p>
--
</p>

        </dd>
      </dl>
      <div class="diff">
        <div class="legend" id="diff-legend">
          <h3>Legend:</h3>
          <dl>
            <dt class="unmod"></dt><dd>Unmodified</dd>
            <dt class="add"></dt><dd>Added</dd>
            <dt class="rem"></dt><dd>Removed</dd>
            <dt class="mod"></dt><dd>Modified</dd>
          </dl>
        </div>
        <div class="diff">
  <ul class="entries">
      <li class="entry">
        <h2 id="file0">
          <a href="KickoffMinutes%3Fversion=1.html">KickoffMinutes</a>
        </h2>
        <table class="trac-diff inline" summary="Differences" cellspacing="0">
              <colgroup><col class="lineno" /><col class="lineno" /><col class="content" /></colgroup>
              <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th title="Version currently edited">
                    <a href="KickoffMinutes%3Faction=diff&amp;version=1.html#L1">
                      v1</a>
                  </th>
                  <th title="Version 1">
                    <a href="KickoffMinutes%3Fversion=1.html#L1">
                      v1</a>
                  </th>
                  <td> </td>
                </tr>
              </thead>
            <tbody class="add">
                  <tr class="first">
                          <th> </th><th>1</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;== PREPARDE Kick-off Meeting ==</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>2</th><td class="r"><ins>Mon 2 July 2012, University of Leicester (Physics Meeting Room F10)[[BR]]</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>3</th><td class="r"><ins>11.00am – 4.30pm</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>4</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>5</th><td class="r"><ins>Present:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>6</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Sarah Callaghan (British Atmospheric Data Centre)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;(SC)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>7</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Rebecca Lawrence (F1000)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (RL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>8</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Fiona Murphy (Wiley-Blackwell) (via Skype)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (FM)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>9</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Tim Roberts (Wiley-Blackwell)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (TR)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>10</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Jonathan Tedds (University of Leicester)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (JT)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>11</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Angus Whyte (DCC)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;(AW)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>12</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Andrew Burnham (University of Leicester) (Note taking)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (AB)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>13</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>14</th><td class="r"><ins>Present for part of the meeting:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>15</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Roland Leigh (University of Leicester) (1.00pm onwards)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;(RoL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>16</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* John Kunze (California Digital Library) (via Skype) (3.15pm onwards) (JK)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>17</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;* Dr Matt Mayernik (NCAR) (via Skype) (3.15pm onwards)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;(MM)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>18</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>19</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>20</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Project Overview'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>21</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>22</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>23</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) This is a widely scoped project so there is need to focus, identify where it can make a difference, the direction, and who can lead where.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>24</th><td class="r"><ins>The original start date was postponed from 1 June 2012, to 1 July 2012 with end date 30th June 2013.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>25</th><td class="r"><ins>The Project budget had to be revised down to £135,000 – and agreed by JISC - from the originally proposed £150,000.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>26</th><td class="r"><ins>There is a revised document and risk report accordingly (distributed).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>27</th><td class="r"><ins>Project documents and slides – agreed that project partners’ logos should be included. Need therefore to add DCC, F1000, and new Wiley logo which is currently being developed.&nbsp; There was agreement that logos could be resized accordingly.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>28</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>29</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Geoscience Data Journal'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>30</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>31</th><td class="r"><ins>(FM) To produce a press release next week.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>32</th><td class="r"><ins>The Editorial board is currently being compiled.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>33</th><td class="r"><ins>The content of the journal will be a) data papers and b) papers about data.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>34</th><td class="r"><ins>In relation to papers about data publication, there may be additional funding for this element from “CODATA”, which is less geoscience specific.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>35</th><td class="r"><ins>The publisher to pay to publish - £1000.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>36</th><td class="r"><ins>There is the issue of peer-review process to reassure funder that dataset is good quality.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>37</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>38</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) Also looking at this – allowing data only papers, encouraging deposit of data into repositories.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>39</th><td class="r"><ins>There is a general move towards linking data to articles.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>40</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>41</th><td class="r"><ins>See BMJ editorial on open access – “BMJ Editorial: Open Science and Reproducible Research” (27 June 2012, http://blog.datadryad.org/2012/06/27/bmj-editorial-open-science-and-reproducible-research/)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>42</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>43</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Springer publishers are considering an open access, on-line only publication to include articles from a range of disciplines regarding data publication. JT has been invited to take a leading role.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>44</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>45</th><td class="r"><ins>(FM) Wants to be at the AGU (American Geophysical Union) conference to engage with community.&nbsp; To send through details of the meeting.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>46</th><td class="r"><ins>This will be chance to meet up with US partners in this project (w/c 3.12.2012).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>47</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>48</th><td class="r"><ins>'''OJIMS'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>49</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>50</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) SC was OJIMS Project Manager.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>51</th><td class="r"><ins>OJIMS - Overlay Journal Infrastructure for Meteorological Sciences JISC project – this developed software for overlay journals i.e. papers about data sets.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>52</th><td class="r"><ins>The project proved that this would technically work.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>53</th><td class="r"><ins>The issue was quiet for a while until Geoscience Data Journal picked it up.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>54</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>55</th><td class="r"><ins>All OJIMS project documents are available and online.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>56</th><td class="r"><ins>The project put a technical framework in for how to publish datasets – a test-bed.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>57</th><td class="r"><ins>Have covered “How to review datasets” - IJDC Papers </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>58</th><td class="r"><ins>Referred to the NERC Science Information Strategy Data Citation and Publication project (http://www.ijdc.net/index.php/ijdc/article/view/208/277) - </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>59</th><td class="r"><ins>Can now mint DOIs (Digital Object Identifiers).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>60</th><td class="r"><ins>Going out to known authors of good datasets in relation to getting a DOI and publishing.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>61</th><td class="r"><ins>Will help people to do this and dataset creators will get credit.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>62</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>63</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Objectives (PowerPoint slides to be forwarded by JT)'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>64</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>65</th><td class="r"><ins>1.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Capture &amp; manage workflows to operate GDJ (Repository-controlled &amp; Journal-Controlled Diagram)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>66</th><td class="r"><ins>The project will involve examining the workflows shown.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>67</th><td class="r"><ins>Those shown on orange are to be investigated by this project.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>68</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>69</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) Queried whether there are other approaches?&nbsp; It assumes that data is in a repository first, but what happens where they aren’t available?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>70</th><td class="r"><ins>Is currently taking another approach with F1000 i.e. people come with a paper and then look at repository issues.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>71</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>72</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) GDJ is core test-case so need to learn from that and look broader.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>73</th><td class="r"><ins>The project should come up with alternative use case diagrams.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>74</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>75</th><td class="r"><ins>Other issues discussed:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>76</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Orphan datasets.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>77</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (SC) Issues with Figshare e.g. not enough metadata.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>78</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>79</th><td class="r"><ins>2.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Develop procedures and policies for authors, reviewers and editors</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>80</th><td class="r"><ins>(FM) Need to clarify what a data paper is.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>81</th><td class="r"><ins>How do retrospective linking?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>82</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>83</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) Guidelines for the F100 new publication include issues regarding:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>84</th><td class="r"><ins>•&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Whether data is raw or processed.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>85</th><td class="r"><ins>•&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;How it has been processed etc.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>86</th><td class="r"><ins>The author guidelines are on line – RL to will forward them.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>87</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>88</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Different disciplines will have different levels of data i.e. beyond simply raw vs. processed.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>89</th><td class="r"><ins>This was thought to be a possible area for a DCC briefing document based on a recent ALPSP presentation he had given entitled “What is (research) data?”</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>90</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>91</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 1 – Project Management'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>92</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>93</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Delivery requirements within the first month:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>94</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Project plan required within a month (with sub plans).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>95</th><td class="r"><ins>SC to do the first draft and send round for comments.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>96</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>97</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Consortium agreement – this needs to come from Leicester (JT).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>98</th><td class="r"><ins>SC to look for similar documents.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>99</th><td class="r"><ins>JT to check with Simon Hodson (JISC) if there is a favoured format for consortium agreements.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>100</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>101</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; A web page needs to be on JISC site</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>102</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>103</th><td class="r"><ins>BADC can set up a wiki, and will split it into the separate work packages.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>104</th><td class="r"><ins>A project blog also will be important – it requires monthly posts and a “we’ve started” kick-off post.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>105</th><td class="r"><ins>There is an issue of where to site all this as UoL is the lead institute, but the Project Manager is based at BADC.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>106</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) There should be a team blog but it isn’t necessary to tie this to UoL (e.g. use Drupal in the JISC-funded BRISSkit project). A project website will be established at Leicester which points to the wiki and blog assuming hosted elsewhere.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>107</th><td class="r"><ins>JT is using “#PREPARDE” hash tag for tweets.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>108</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>109</th><td class="r"><ins>A Mid-term report is required after 6 months.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>110</th><td class="r"><ins>Internal project communications – a project mailing list has been set up and this should be used for all communications until other facilities have been established.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>111</th><td class="r"><ins>A monthly teleconference/Skype will take place (all agreed to use Skype). This will be important to keep things ticking over.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>112</th><td class="r"><ins>There should also be face to face meetings when possible e.g. when workshops are running.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>113</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>114</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 2 – Journal and Data Repository workflows'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>115</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>116</th><td class="r"><ins>(FM) Information about what people need?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>117</th><td class="r"><ins>How accessible are data repos to potential publishers.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>118</th><td class="r"><ins>Have got some peer-review guidance documents.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>119</th><td class="r"><ins>Best way to engage? </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>120</th><td class="r"><ins>See GDJ home page – author guidelines (and on submissions page)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>121</th><td class="r"><ins>Reviewer guidelines not yet published.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>122</th><td class="r"><ins>What meetings/survey etc. to gather information?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>123</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>124</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Sees the work package slightly differently, concerned with points where interactions with repositories can be made, looking for example at what are the BADC workflows when publishing.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>125</th><td class="r"><ins>Thinks guidelines fit into the next work package.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>126</th><td class="r"><ins>First pass capture is required before move further.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>127</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>128</th><td class="r"><ins>Required activity is to a) sit down with those in the organisation, with a sheet of paper and literally talk about what happens in the publication process, and b) get the results into e-format and send round for comment.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>129</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Asked AW to do submission flows for IJDC – as baseline for traditional publishing.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>130</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>131</th><td class="r"><ins>Need to start to get academics involved relatively early to view what considering.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>132</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Whilst framing the project in the first month, wondered if there are others to contact/liaise with.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>133</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) When we have our own workflows others may be more likely to comment/share.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>134</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>135</th><td class="r"><ins>Others to contact re their workflows:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>136</th><td class="r"><ins>a)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; DRYAD – Ryan Scherle (http://wiki.datadryad.org/Publications ).&nbsp; AW to talk to him at an Open Repository event.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>137</th><td class="r"><ins>b)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Brian Hole (Ubiquity Press and PI for other new JISCMRD data publication project based around new Journal of Open Archaeological Data)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>138</th><td class="r"><ins>c)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Pensoft?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>139</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Also need to ask US colleagues to do workflows from their perspective.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>140</th><td class="r"><ins>SC agreed to lead this work package alongside FM.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>141</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>142</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 4 – Cross-linking between repositories and data publishers'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>143</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>144</th><td class="r"><ins>(FM)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>145</th><td class="r"><ins>Can technically cross-link but it is a very manual process.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>146</th><td class="r"><ins>This involves what can be automated, places to collect information, and best practice to emerge.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>147</th><td class="r"><ins>The more specific about what is needed the better.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>148</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>149</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) There is an issue about where exactly a data citation should be.&nbsp; This needs to be thrashed out with DataCite etc.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>150</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) Her own discussion about this concluded that it should be in the reference list.&nbsp; There is need to send a paper round to publishers to get agreement.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>151</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Agreeing with this, it was thought that the citation should be in the paper’s abstract also.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>152</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>153</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) ISB &amp; BioShare are working on unique identifiers and links through a BBSRC funded project.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>154</th><td class="r"><ins>The article and the dataset will both have their own DOI.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>155</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>156</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 3 – Scientific review of datasets'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>157</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>158</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>159</th><td class="r"><ins>Through experience of ESA datasets there are validation points and programmes.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>160</th><td class="r"><ins>Need major data provider e.g. Met Office, ESA to get a peer review process in for publishing algorithms.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>161</th><td class="r"><ins>Wants to know how datasets are reviewed, what methods are used, have they been peer- reviewed.&nbsp; This influences whether there is trust in the data.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>162</th><td class="r"><ins>The aim is for a structured way to have confidence in datasets.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>163</th><td class="r"><ins>See: CEMS - Climate and Environmental Monitoring from Space (http://isic-space.com/driving-innovation/climate-and-environmental-monitoring-from-space/)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>164</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>165</th><td class="r"><ins>There is a Knowledge exchange interest, and issues move towards “can a validation portal be created?”.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>166</th><td class="r"><ins>Also looking at Data review guidelines.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>167</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>168</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Referred to International Journal of Data Curation (IJDC) article with data quality/metadata quality guidelines etc. (Issue 2, Volume 6, 2011 “Citation and Peer Review of Data: Moving Towards Formal Data Publication” - http://www.ijdc.net/index.php/ijdc/article/view/181/265)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>169</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>170</th><td class="r"><ins>(RoL) Raised the issue of what researchers are looking for to make data trustworthy - How can you trust data?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>171</th><td class="r"><ins>Suggested a link to the National Centre for Earth Observation (algorithm developers) as they create new datasets and are interested in validation etc.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>172</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>173</th><td class="r"><ins>(?)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>174</th><td class="r"><ins>Scientific and technical (what the repos. Does – data scientist e.g. won’t give them a DOI if not required metadata, not using accepted terminology) validation/review</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>175</th><td class="r"><ins>Generalities vs. specifics of subsets of disciplines/types of data</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>176</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL)&nbsp; Repos. Needs to know about peer review e.g. “it’s rubbish”</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>177</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) – they don’t currently know/express an opinion </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>178</th><td class="r"><ins>There was seen to be need for domain knowledge in review.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>179</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>180</th><td class="r"><ins>(AW) The NERC Data Value Checklist addresses what makes a dataset long-term scientifically valuable.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>181</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>182</th><td class="r"><ins>Allocation of DOIs – It was noted that UKDA allocate a new DOI for major revisions (and not minor revisions), but practice varies.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>183</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Minting DOI’s is relatively new so there is a not lot of experience.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>184</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>185</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Concluded that with so many issues and questions, the key question is which aspects to concentrate on. Will work with RoL, Heiko Balzter and other academics to produce recommendations.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>186</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>187</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 6 – Stakeholder engagement and dissemination, including external communications'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>188</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>189</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Will be running stakeholder workshops later on, shaped by earlier work.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>190</th><td class="r"><ins>There is potential for a briefing paper, questionnaire approach, to target audiences for workshops.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>191</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Should also include the DCC organised Research Data Management Forum.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>192</th><td class="r"><ins>It was agreed that the appropriate format would be to tag onto other events e.g. as per IDCC conference.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>193</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>194</th><td class="r"><ins>Possibilities to follow up:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>195</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; STM Association - http://www.stm-assoc.org/ (International Association of Scientific, Technical &amp; Medical Publishers) (FM)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>196</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Learned Societies</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>197</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Royal Astronomical Society (JT)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>198</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; AGU (SC)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>199</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; AMS – American Meteorological Society (FM)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>200</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Use GDJ Review Board as now putting it together (RL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>201</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; IPCC (RL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>202</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>203</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) It was suggested that a portable “standard workshop” should be created and taken from place to place.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>204</th><td class="r"><ins>(JT) Developments in this area should be recorded on the Wiki.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>205</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>206</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 5 - Data Repository Accreditation'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>207</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>208</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Leading on this with a clear idea of initial leads and contacts.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>209</th><td class="r"><ins>There is a first draft report for IDCC conference in January focussing on guidelines for publishers to help them identify trustworthy repositories.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>210</th><td class="r"><ins>A request was made for others to point to any information if they are aware of any.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>211</th><td class="r"><ins>Note:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>212</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The “Data Seal of Approval” (http://www.datasealofapproval.org/)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>213</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 16363 – ISO standard. (http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=56510)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>214</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>215</th><td class="r"><ins>'''3.15pm onwards – American colleagues joined at this point and work package discussions were reviewed'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>216</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>217</th><td class="r"><ins>a)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Matt Mayernik – NCAR </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>218</th><td class="r"><ins>b)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; John Kunze – Associate Director, University of California Curation Center</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>219</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>220</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 1 – Project Management'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>221</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>222</th><td class="r"><ins>SC confirmed that a project Mailing List had set up, and she was writing a Project Plan.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>223</th><td class="r"><ins>SC/JT to work on a project website/wiki/collaborative environment. JK/MM confirmed that they were not too concerned about which platform was used for these.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>224</th><td class="r"><ins>A monthly telecom will be set up and Leicester will draw up a consortium agreement.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>225</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>226</th><td class="r"><ins>Agreed Communications:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>227</th><td class="r"><ins>a)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Telecons to default to 4.00pm UK time monthly, via Skype, days to be decided by Doodle Poll.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>228</th><td class="r"><ins>b)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Quarterly or 6 monthly face to face meetings.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>229</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>230</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 2 – Journal and Data Repository workflows'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>231</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>232</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Each project team member should go into each of their own organisations and look at the publishing workflows – steps that happen before a DOI is created, the work is frozen and it is made available.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>233</th><td class="r"><ins>Workflow comparison to be conducted, to bring together to see common procedures and differences and where crosslinks can be made easily.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>234</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>235</th><td class="r"><ins>(MM) Within NCAR there are many workflows rather than one.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>236</th><td class="r"><ins>Data management teams are very specific, different labs with very specific work e.g. the climate modelling team.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>237</th><td class="r"><ins>Data systems and workflows have grown independently.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>238</th><td class="r"><ins>We need to see what should cut across all e.g. citation, peer review.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>239</th><td class="r"><ins>Noted that this is well timed as this was work which was needed.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>240</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>241</th><td class="r"><ins>To focus on 3 groups, better organised, and have already contacted and confirmed that they are interested in this proposal:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>242</th><td class="r"><ins>a)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; NCAR earth observing lab (observation data).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>243</th><td class="r"><ins>b)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Climate modelling team (simulation data).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>244</th><td class="r"><ins>c)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Research Data Archive (reference collection of diverse data types).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>245</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>246</th><td class="r"><ins>Suggestions have been made about other US groups which may be appropriate.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>247</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>248</th><td class="r"><ins>(JK) Confirmed that have their own repository and issue DOI’s.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>249</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>250</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 3 – Scientific review of datasets'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>251</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>252</th><td class="r"><ins>Are working towards reviewer guidance, and will use what exists (RL evidence).</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>253</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) How many different flavours will be required? – this will be interesting.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>254</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>255</th><td class="r"><ins>(MM) Aware that this will be tricky, with technical vs. scientific review.&nbsp; There are wide variations in time spent, and results.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>256</th><td class="r"><ins>Issues include:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>257</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Who is qualified to review?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>258</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Who would you send a dataset to?&nbsp; Peer review implies review by somebody outside of the team responsible for creating and archiving data, but people outside will have less context, and may require more than project documentation.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>259</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Review before or after a data set is made available is interesting question. There, users may find issues with the data e.g. calibration errors, and results in change.&nbsp; </ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>260</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Common practice at NCAR is to require login before data can be downloaded, which allows the data archiving teams to inform those who have used data if there is a data set change.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>261</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>262</th><td class="r"><ins>(JK) Experiences much less formal review and so feels an outlier in this.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>263</th><td class="r"><ins>Within versioning the important thing is keeping the version history, whatever the DOI policy.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>264</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>265</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL) Is asked to peer reviews and they make take days.&nbsp; Issues are therefore,</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>266</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; How much time is reasonable?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>267</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tools used?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>268</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Prioritisation of which is important and needs/doesn’t need review.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>269</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; How do you structure this extra work?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>270</th><td class="r"><ins>He concluded that best review is when people actually use the data.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>271</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>272</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 6 – Stakeholder engagement and dissemination, including external communications'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>273</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>274</th><td class="r"><ins>Suggested events:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>275</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Agree that IDCC workshop will be good idea.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>276</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (MM) American meteorological Society January 2013</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>277</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; AGU</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>278</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>279</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) Decided against a dedicated Project Twitter feed for now but to use #PREPARDE in personal tweets, show activity on web pages, and get information on Wiki and point to it via #PREPARDE as soon as possible.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>280</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>281</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 4 – Cross-linking between repositories and data publishers'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>282</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>283</th><td class="r"><ins>(RL)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>284</th><td class="r"><ins>Worth linking into BBSRC funded iBioDBCore (Internal BioCreators / Bio-Sharers)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>285</th><td class="r"><ins>List of all biology repositories - Catalogue data they take, back-up plan, how funded etc.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>286</th><td class="r"><ins>BioDBCore Stamp</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>287</th><td class="r"><ins>Last year and a half</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>288</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>289</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) A “Publication Roadmap” for CDL is required as a deliverable.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>290</th><td class="r"><ins>Next step is linking papers to data with a DOI.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>291</th><td class="r"><ins>What metrics should be used? e.g. usage counters.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>292</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>293</th><td class="r"><ins>(JK) Reuters are looking at launching data citation index, but SC noted that this is some way off yet.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>294</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>295</th><td class="r"><ins>'''Work Package 5 - Data Repository Accreditation'''</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>296</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>297</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) The initial step is the need to do Google searches to find out what is out there.&nbsp; Get what information we can find.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>298</th><td class="r"><ins>(MM) What exactly will Accreditation mean? – How active? How much self-certification?</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>299</th><td class="r"><ins>(SC) What we need to do is requirements for this.</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>300</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>301</th><td class="r"><ins>Suggested sources:</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>302</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (FM) NISO – National Inst. Standards Org</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>303</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (AW) Digital Preservation Consortium, Center for research Libraries, DCC risk management approach (DRAMBORA)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>304</th><td class="r"><ins>&nbsp;*&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; (JT) Compare to Biomed ISO standards work (UCL pilot group with BRISSkit http://www.brisskit.le.ac.uk project led by JT)</ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr>
                          <th> </th><th>305</th><td class="r"><ins></ins> </td>
                  </tr><tr class="last">
                          <th> </th><th>306</th><td class="r"><ins>SC to draw up timelines in the next month.</ins> </td>
                  </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
      </li>
  </ul>
</div>
      </div>
  </div>
    </div>
    <div id="footer" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><hr />
      <a id="tracpowered" href="http://trac.edgewall.org/"><img src="../chrome/common/trac_logo_mini.png" height="30" width="107" alt="Trac Powered" /></a>
      <p class="left">Powered by <a href="../about.html"><strong>Trac 0.12.2</strong></a><br />
        By <a href="http://www.edgewall.org/">Edgewall Software</a>.</p>
      <p class="right">Visit the Trac open source project at<br /><a href="http://trac.edgewall.org/">http://trac.edgewall.org/</a></p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
